Suddenly symptomatic after hospitalization. Need help. We help take care my wife's Grandpa, who suffers from Alzheimer's. He was recently hospitalized after becoming dizzy and feeling some vertigo that caused him to get sick every time he tried to stand up. Up until this point he was fully capable of every day tasks. Raked the yard every day, along with other daily jobs around the house. When he cane back from the hospital, he suddenly can't do anything without becoming confused, and doesn't even know where he is or what is going on. His speech has deteriorated and has trouble forming words. He pilfers through rooms for no logical reason. Do episodes like this happen and pass with sleep and proper care? Or is this how it happens, one day they are ok, and the next they aren't? And we have to keep him from trying to go outside and hurting himself, because even his motor skills have also deteriorated. I am just asking if this will pass or is this just the way it is going to be? Thank you.
I was reading about pseudodementia vs actual dementia and I'm not sure what the differences are. Looking online, there don't appear to be any noticeable differences, just slight nuances. She's had depression for a long time, and there was an event that sent her into an even deeper depression, but this is way different from anything else I've seen. We've gotten different diagnoses and my dad is sticking with the temporary amnesia/pseudodementia diagnosis while I've gotten used to saying it's early onset. I suppose they won't truly know until she passes Does anyone know more about this? Has anyone had experience with pseudodementia?
I think this is super common. How long was he hospitalized? my dad who has Alzheimer's was hospitalized after falling and was in the hospital for 3 days. I noticed a marked decline after he came home; couldn't use the bathroom anymore, was shuffling around a lot, had more trouble talking. It took a little time but he mostly "recovered" and is back to his usual self.
He got out last Sunday after being in for 4 days. Thanks. I just didn't know if he should have been back to "normal" by now, or if it took a fair amount of time.
as with anything, it really just depends on the person but anything outside of their normal routine can really throw them for a loop
Yea, I've noticed that. I have come to dread big family get-togethers, he is easily aggravated for a few days afterwards. This is just a very dramatic change, it's never been this bad.
I'm sorry; I hope he bounces back.
It’s worth testing for a UTI if you can. That can cause confusion, delirium even in healthy older adults. It could also be stress/agitation - or of course worsening symptoms. We’ve learned that skill loss looks more like little cliffs than gradual. Key skills are lost that propped others up. Also, for us a small dose of anti anxiety medication stopped the rummaging/escaping (lexapro). It was a godsend. Best of luck to you! If he’s like my mother in law, he will get miraculously better as soon as you’re about to go to the doctor haha
Did the hospital find a cause for the dizziness/vertigo? Sudden-onset dizziness can be a symptom of stroke. Even mild strokes can affect wider brain function and cognition. Infections can also cause the kind of changes you describe. Has anyone checked your Grandpa's temperature? Either way, it is difficult to know what the future will bring if it's not clear what is causing the current problems. You may want to have a talk with your Grandpa's doctor.
Well, unfortunately, with my grandma, it happens suddenly. For an example: Monday she was fine, but at Tuesday she fell from her bed and peed herself. It was gaming changing to her, now it feels like her mental state got way worse. So from what I experienced, yeah, it happens like you're seeing. :(In one day they are ok, the other something can change. It's unpredictable.
Check her for a silent UTI. These are symptoms.
I'm sorry, English is not my first language, what do you mean by silent uti and those are symptoms for what? I'm really sorry I didn't understand and thank you very much
Elderly, especially those with dementia, do not usually show symptoms of a UTI. That’s why it’s “silent.” Usually the only symptoms are sudden changes in behavior, falling, or more confusion. Edited to say my mother has one now. She just returned from the hospital and rehab after leg surgery.
Oh, thank you for explaining! I'm gonna talk to my dad and aunt this morning to talk about
How long has it been since her fall? And prior to it, she was fully self sufficient?
Well, it's 4 days since she fell, and she wasn't fully self sufficient but she did most things alone, we just needed to remind the medicine, to drink the right amount of water and things like that.
Have his medications changed? Every time my grandmother was admitted her behaviour changed, usually because the doctors would change her medications for one reason or another.
Agree with the UTI comments here- based on experience. I have also seen sudden decline as well. It’s a very challenging journey.
If there was an ear infection or pain, it's likely as the infection clears up, he may start to improve. My mom got angry, extremely confused (more than usual), and incontinent when she had a UTI and again when she broke her wrist. She did the same when she went through a spell where she was only sleeping for an hour or two a night.
I know that he's just gotten home from the hospital but I would also recommend having him checked for a potential UTI. Absolutely, any change in routine, & especially something as traumatic as a hospitalization can result in a decline. With routine & care, he may regain some or all of what he has lost but it is highly individualized. However, I've found that with any sudden decline, it is usually prudent to make sure a UTI is not also in play, as many of the symptoms indicative of a decline can also be caused or exacerbated by a UTI. Sending you & your family love & support & we hope that your Grandpa-in-law is feeling more himself again. Xo
Hey there, I know this is a bit off topic & I apologize for that. Quick question to make sure I'm understanding this correctly- a UTI can be seen in a patient and they will start to experience AD symptoms afterwards?
No worries. So, unlike people who suffer from a UTI & are younger (who would complain of things like painful urination, fever, chills & lower abdominal pain), older adults often struggle with behavioral changes as a result of a urinary tract infection. You might see increased confusion. agitation, withdrawal etc. Unfortunately, for those already dealing with dementia, these type of symptoms can be overlooked or explained away by age or possible progression & the underlying UTI can get worse & eventually the infection can spread to the bloodstream. The rule of thumb is that if an elderly person, ESPECIALLY one who is already dealing with dementia, shows signs of decline suddenly, check for a UTI to exclude that as a possibility.
Awesome explanation. Thank you very much for taking the time to explain this. I never heard of this scenario before, so I was really interested, due to the bacteria involved with UTIs and seeing if it fit into my AD theory :)
Wow, I never thought of that. I was starting to keep a pint of chocolate ice cream in the freezer at all times since it seemed like it comforted her, but now I'm second guessing. I'll give it a go Thanks!
Keto ice cream bars at Costco! We keep them in the freezer at all times. Great when you want that ice cream fix but no guilt and no gut! If you suspect your mom is getting dementia/Alzheimer’s, I strongly recommend you research diet and Alzheimer’s. Tons of new findings in the field of brain research, as well as microbiome research (both are closely related). Remember that what she does WILL affect you, your dad, and everyone in your family. You may find that if you can get her diet straight and if she can develop a mild and consistent exercise routine, you could turn this around. And trust me when I say that you want to turn this potential diagnosis around if you can. The amount of research you can find on YouTube is pretty amazing these days. I wish this research had been available twenty years ago. I might have been more forceful in my insistence on a clean diet and personal care routine.
I sincerely hope that dietary interventions or even pharmacological interventions could help her. But no, in 2021, you don't have to wait on an autopsy for a diagnosis. I don't know where you are geographically, but near a major city in the USA you could go to a specialist center that would take a sample of her cerebro-spinal fluid and DNA, and render a diagnosis or at least rule out a bunch of things. This is tough, I know you are probably exhausted.
Our doctor/referral situation is a bit of a mess right now, especially with COVID, so I don't know if we'd be able to organize it. Even if we did, getting her there would a nightmare. Still, it's a good thing to keep in the back of my head for when things get betterThank you!
hope you find out, I am planning a XC,bike ride across America in 2022, The Magical Memory tour to commemorate my ride of 50 years ago and to raise funds for alzheimers which didn't seem to be a big thing back then. but takes it horrendous toll now.
That’s an amazing commitment. I wish you the best.
When you donate to an organization, you can usually say it's in memory of _____, or something; the organiztion can then notify the family. You can also write a check to the organization, but send it to the surviving family member in a sympathy card. Or you can simply tell the survivor that you did it, like you suggested.As for choosing an organization, look at their website. Do they stress how big they are in research? Or is it more oriented to individual and family supports? Personally I think both are equally important to progress. You could also ask the surviving family member if they have a particular organization in mind.