A Time Out Room?
having guests and visitors is impossible when the alz patient insists on participating, getting underfoot and making visitors uncomfortable. i'm wondering about the feasibility of a "time out" room. obviously, it would have to have a lock, comfortable furniture, a tv, radio with soothing music..what do you think? has anyone ever tried this?

What is happening to my grandmother?
she is age 82 she was fine then she got a stomach flu and got dehydrated and was badly prescribed too much low sodium blood pressure tablet she became unconscious. we called the ambulance and after 1 week she came out of the hospital, she can no longer walk even though she could have walked fine before. she now at nights say very weird stuff she calls people names at random she thinks her dead brother is still alive even though he died 30 years ago. she will then call out jesus for help then she will call everyone's name like my name or my brother name etc she has become very miserable, she wakes up everybody at nights, right now she is saying she is hungry even though she was just fed food, she likely isn't hungry because every night is some new nonsense she does to wake up everybody who is sleeping, then she will say she is falling out of her bed even though she is not. it is almost as if she is malfunctioning what exactly is the cause of this? is this how it all ends? is this the final years of human life, torment and misery?there is noway in hell this will happen to me when i get old, i rather put a bullet in my brain than allow my body to reach this state and live like this.

Dad likes to tinker - activities?
my dad is in stage 3/7, probably approaching stage 4/7 soon. he's always been one to tinker with things, even things that don't need to be tinkered with (this has lead to some pretty questionable repairs and "improvements" over the years). now that we've had to get rid of his biggest tinker project (a sailboat), i'm looking for other ways to keep him occupied. i've thought about simple wooden model/toy kits. i've thought about buying some old toasters at a thrift store for him to mess with. anyone have any other suggestions for hobby kits or something that aren't embarrassing children's toys?

Memory care facilities
anyone have luck getting their loved one into one of these facilities? i’ve been calling it seems unless they are hospitalized they don’t want to take them in.i was trying to ballpark costs since she has no assets, her only income is ssi and she is covered through both medical and medicare but they don’t seem to want to engage unless she’s ready to go in at this moment. anyone have any guidance or luck with this? i’m in los angeles if that helps.

How do I help my mum who I believe has dementia (but refuses to acknowledge any issues)
i and my family think my mum (72) has some serious mental health issues, we think dementia is likely. she is a lovely caring person; the sort of person you'd bring a friend home to and she would fuss over them and make sure everything is perfect.in the last 2 years or so, she has changed, becoming fixated on odd topics (she watches hours of news everyday), become more moody and also very bitter. in the last week, she has been adamant it is the 28th of december, even tho my dad showed her a calender and tried to explain what day it was. she has had two arguements with people who were walking there dogs on the street past her house etc. it is so out of character. the problem is that she refuses to get help. my dad has asked her multiple times. i've mentioned it (in the guise of treating covid induced anxiety) and she told me my dad didn't want her seeing anyone. i’ve noticed these changes in the past couple of years, but it has swiftly accelerated in the past few months.i guess my question is, what is the best way forward? how do we get her help? i have not yet sat her down for a "serious" conversation as my concern itwill antaganoise her. any suggestions are much appreciated.

Why is dementia so weird?
something that i observed over the 2 years that my grandma had symptoms is that from september until march her dementia is worse. from march to august she seems so fine. she remembers most things and is in a good mood almost all of the time. how is this possible? also in the mornings she feels more confused but late in the day is way better.do some of you have similar observations or is it just me?

financial help
i am trying to find out some information regarding finances for my in laws. my father in law has been recently diagnosed with dementia and will be going into a nursing home of some sort as his wife cannot care for him. she may not be too far behind him but at least for now she can stay at home with her daughter if needed be. he is a veteran of vietnam and currently at the va hospital. they have very little money, basically just their social security, but they do own a home. i believe he has medicare and va medical( not va disabled though). they are thinking of selling their home to help pay for a better nursing home, but i believe that insurance will not pay anything if they have money in the bank. thus causing him to get a year of a better nursing home while making his wife lose her home. or, they could just keep the house and not lose it? also he made some poor financial decisions ( bought car on a credit card) before anyone realized he was suffering from dementia. three card is in his name. so many questions, is there somewhere to get actually legit answers for finances in these circumstances?thank you so much for any help

Suicide Attempt
my 80 year old mother with dementia (some good days some bad days) attempted suicide yesterday with an opiod over dose. dad called 911 and police and ambulance show up. the police would not let him see her last night while they investigate. the pills were very old and prescribed to her. he gave all the bottles and unused pills to the police when they arrived. in her confusion, she regularly talks about how everyone is mean to her (think every time she does not get her way on things that will hurt her). she falls often and has a mark on her head from a fall this past weekend.so how does this go? does my father need a lawyer?

Grandma has dementia - her son passed away. Need advice.
my grandma has mild dementia. her son, my uncle, recently passed away due to an unforeseen circumstance. i don't want to get too in depth about it but, my uncle has not kept in much touch with my family, we have a bit of a family drama/dysfunctional family; we got notified from the hospital that he passed. rest of my family doesn't want to tell my grandma because they think it'll put her health at risk (i.e. faint, depression, etc.) and potentially even lead to her death. i understand where they are coming from but, i think it's right for her to know. how should my family approach about this, should we really just keep it a secret and not let her come to the funeral or something? if we do tell her, how can we tell her in a manner that will not have a drastic affect?

Handcrafting skills for dementia patients?
i am trying to help my grandmother enjoy her day as she just sits with us all day long watching tv. she lived with us. i read some advice on talking with her about her past and i did. she mentioned that she used to knit a lot before as a hobby. i am thinking of bring her a knitting set. will she still remember how to knit from before? or would it have been forgotten? any advices/activities that you can suggest? 

Grandparent advice
hi all, please delete if this is not the right sub for this!my grandparents both have dementia and live with their daughter (my aunt) and my mom is close by to help out. my grandmother is just kind of living in her own bubble, going along with everything. my grandfather will swear up and down that he doesn't have dementia (he's actually diagnosed) and he's my main concern. he got violent and tried to choke my mother over a moldy cake around christmas. she opted to not take any legal action but elder services was involved. he is still living with my grandmother and aunt and i worry for their safety. he is creating a potentially volatile situation by claiming he is going to sell their second home which i live in and take care of. several years ago his name was removed from the deed to the house and it's now in my grandmother and mothers name. he does not seem to be aware of this situation and is planning to call a realtor and will eventually be informed that he has no legal claim to this house. i fear he may become violent again and possibly with my grandmother who is pretty frail. i live 3+hrs away and can't really be present, is there anything i can do beyond calling elder services? i feel like he may need to be placed in assisted living for everyone's safety but my mom and aunt are against it for some reason.

Pros/cons/possibilities of hiring a live-in nurse for an elderly parent?
my father is in the hospital, preliminarily diagnosed with lbd. he is going to be placed in a skilled care facility for some rehabilitation. has anyone ever hired a full time caregiver to bring their parent home at that point?

Out of the house!
so i have been looking for things i can do to get my grandmother up and around as much as she's able. i looked through all the lbd organizations and also just googled "senior events" along with a few other variations and all most all of them are either unsafe for dementia patents (hallucinations in an unfenced park without any staff or anything doesn't sit well with me) or that they are more for a 5 year old that a early stage dementia patent ("making a picture frame" kit? is there craft foam and macaroni too?) i just want her to be able to socialize with people other than her immediate family in some way other than doctors visits and bingo. any organizations that aren't senior living homes? any ideas for what to google?

TV setup for Grandma with dimentia
my grandmother has dementia and lives on her own. she likes to watch tv, but her cable provider updated her cable box which has complicated the way in which to turn on the tv. she is used to a simple remote, but now you need 2 remotes and several more steps, which she cannot remember.  my question is... is there a way, possibly with a smart tv, that i could remotely turn her tv on and off via my smart phone from my house? has anyone ever dealt with anything like this? thanks so much

His dementia may have been mismanaged diabetes this entire time
my dad has always been very private, and he did have brain swelling two years ago, but he has been in and out of the hospital wanting to harm himself and me the caregiver, his daughter. we made the connection that he's violent and wants to leave the house, goes the hospital, they take care of his sugar, and then he is friendly and wants to come home.  i learned today his pen is broken. so far the last six months he hasn't been taking his insulin except when the hospital gave it to him (he would go like a few times per week) and he would just sleep when he couldn't get his insulin pen to work.so i have unfortunately been dealing with the news my mom has brain cancer, she can't really do much i have to caregiver to the fullest extent with her and now i have to basically do my dad's insulin for him.it makes me wonder how many other diseases out there can mimic dementia or rather severe dementia. i can't say for sure he doesn't have it as he was displaying a little confusion after they fixed his sugar but he definitely isn't homicidal, suicidal, or trying to break everything around the house. my condolences go out to everyone who lost a loved one and had to watch them go through dementia prior to their passing, and to everyone out there currently caring for a parent with dementia you're doing amazing and they'd be proud of you of they were still themselves and able to express it.why does this disease have to be so sad? and the fact it's in your brain makes me think it can manifest various symptoms making a unified treatment difficult.

Forced into care home
my mil with advanced dementia is being forced into a care home because she had a fall recently and several seizures.  we don't know if she had seizures before the fall or only after. the doctors and nurses in the hospital won't allow her to return home. up to now, she had approximately 30 hours a week home/care support at home. my mil is currently really confused in hospital, crying a lot and we fear that putting her into a home will make things a lot worse. in the past, she refused moving. she had the chance to move into a seniors home a year ago and refused. my family tried to prevent the situation that has now come about-power of attorney and forcible institutionalization. what does it mean when a person with dementia has seizures? it appears my mil has lost the capacity for rational thought and only reacts emotionally all the time. thank you.

Game suggestions to help dementia
i was able to go home see my grandma (who lives in a assisted care facility) for the first time in months because of covid. isolation has not been kind to her, she didn’t recognize me which i was not expecting and was very hard. i’m planning on going home until school starts so i can see her more. i’ve been doing research on games to strengthen the mind, however, she has macular degeneration and that is limiting my ideas. i was going to order a custom puzzle of her and i but i realized she wouldnt be able to do it because of how bad her eyes have gotten. i’m going to bake some of our old recipes and play music, but i would really like to know what games/activities i could play with her to help and if there is any sort of game i could leave her with on her own time? this is my first time experiencing this and i really love my grandma, comments are super appreciated.

Ideas for helping parents organize/clean house?
my folks are getting older mid 70s, my mother has been having a bit of memory issues lately though my father still works as a surgeon and is doing great. the issue which has been magnified during covid is their house has become more and more cluttered. most rooms now function as something of storage areas, papers and clothes in piles in various rooms. i have 3 other siblings though they live around the world, so i am the one who is taking on this responsibility. its gotten to the point where my fiance hates coming over due to the immense clutter (which i can see her point). i can help a little here and there when i visit, but i think this needs a professional touch. essentially get rid of many things that have been kept for decades, go through each room, drawers, closets and just donate/throw it out. how have you guys dealt with this issue with your aging parents? should they hire an organizer? professional cleaner? is there a profession that specializes in this?

How to bring up the possibility of Alzheimers
hello everyone. i have a problem that i'm not sure how to approach. my future mother in law is showing a lot of signs for early onset alzheimer's. she falls down a lot, she forgets where she puts things a few moments prior, she repeats herself in conversations multiple times, she has problems following conversations and instructions, she pulled away from most contact (she quit her job and doesn't visit anyone anymore), she has horrible judgment, especially with money (she would forget to pay bills, but would spend hundreds on furniture, just to throw it away a few weeks later to buy more furniture), she often makes weird and unexplainable decisions (for example, when the garbage is full, she will take the bag out and throw it outside, in random places, sometimes outside the bathroom window, sometimes on the front lawn, yesterday it was behind the garage, which is actually farther to go than to the dumpster) and she frequently changes her mood, from happy and content to yelling at family, blaming them for things she caused. i know she has been (and possibly currently is) depressed, and i have read that depression can increase the chance of getting alzheimer's.i want to get her to go to the doctor and get checked out. alzheimer's runs in her family for multiple generations on both sides, but i don't know how to bring it up. lately she has been very combative with anyone bringing up any opinion that doesn't match her own. can i call her doctor and request a check up when she goes next time? i have no idea as to how to go about this. thank you in advance for any assistance you can provide.

Has anyone here been tested for the gene?
i've long suspected my dad would eventually be diagnosed with alzheimer's. now that he has, i have been thinking about getting tested for the alzheimer's gene but i don't know how right now. have any of you been tested? how did you react to your results? how do they do the test? i guess i'm just looking for any advice or stories about your experiences. 

Question about remembrance of recent events/conversations/etc...
hi,i have a question about potential dementia as it relates to remembering recent activities/events/conversations...a close family member has what we think is probably (relatively early) dementia of some kind - has a lot of the classic symptoms and often forgets things that just happened (forgot he was at the dentist later that same day for example). often forgets recent conversations, and will ask the same questions several times within the span of a few days. recently he was in the passenger seat of the car and we were driving in an area he had been to several times in the past (though not in the last few years) and he was sure he'd never been there in his life. had no idea where he was.  all this leads us to think he has dementia.on the other hand, he will occasionally remember recent conversations, even a few weeks later. totally random and out of the blue. this sometimes makes me question whether or not it would be dementia or something else. there's no way to know for sure unfortunately as he would never agree to get evaluated by a doctor (there are issues of narcissism that prevent him him acknowledging there's ever anything wrong with him).anyway, is it normal for someone with dementia to sometimes remember recent occurrences, seemingly randomly? thank you!

Experience with Depends?
incontinence is starting. last time, a few weeks ago, she realized that she peed herself. this time it didn't register. i know it will get worse. what is your experience with depends? how may changes a day? any tips? i am thinking i'll need some kind of couch and chair covers as well.

Advice on bringing memory loss up for the first time
my grandma is sixty-three, she's been more of a parent to me than anyone. and i've noticed a huge decline in her memory. she's ways been the crazy woman but she's flipping. there has been a huge cognitive decline. i'm scared. i don't don't how to bring it up. i know something is off. how do i, far my grandmas inferior, tell her to go to the doctor because i think i'm losing her?

Is this an early sign of cognitive decline/dementia?
my dad who's 71 was coming out of the shower and suddenly wouldn't be able to recall why he was getting ready for. he was actually preparing to go get an airplane ticket he had won by going to several different restaurants the week before, this by ordering a special dish at each place. he wouldn't remember the restaurants, the dishes, the ticket he had won, etc. his wife would remind him the whole story but he couldn't. he would recall everything else, like his name, birth date, street address, etc. everything came back into order but only 20 to 30 minutes later. first time he has a memory loss.he is a teacher, has overall good life habits, drinks a bit, doesnt smoke and has no disease of any kind...could this be an early sign of dementia/alzheimer or something similar?i am intrigued by the length of this episode.thank you for any info and sorry if i posted this at the wrong place.

Holidays for dementia patients
my mother has early onset dementia, and she is steadily declining. she used to work on cruise ships when she was younger so has it set in her mind that we should do a cruise before it is too late- unfortunately i feel like it may be already be too hard on her. we didn't have any money beforehand but have since gotten her disability payment, but it took so so so long she has gotten really bad.she needed to go to the hospital for a three days and it took her a while to recover and she was not able to handle the change at all, she was stressed and confused even when we were there with her (she was a mess when we weren't 😪). might have been the anesthesia and medicine they were giving her making it worse- i am not too sure.  she is adamant however on a trip. we are thinking more a beach holiday as she loves the beach (we are in australia so there are lovely places around). she has her mind set on the cruise and we don't want to disappoint her but are also quite worried for her. has anyone taken their loved ones with dementia on holidays? what tips and tricks could you recommend?  have they been affected negatively by the change so suddenly? thank you for any information you have- love her to bits so just want to do the best for her.

Constant talking
so my mother-in-law hasn't been diagnosed with dementia, even though the family suspects it. she shows many symptoms of it. she also like to talk. and talk... and talk. she literally just goes on and on about the most random shit. and she just talks to talk, rather than having a point. it's like she's can't have any pauses.if we are are visiting her, and she's alone, like in the kitchen and we're in the living room within ear shot, she will talk to herself and she will hum. oh my god, the humming. if someone is speaking to her, during those few seconds of her "listening", she hums!anyways, my first question is, could this constant talking and humming be related to dementia? has anyone else noticed these behaviors in your family members with dementia? and how do you deal?

Grandfather with Alzheimers keeps overfeeding dog - what to do?
hi,my grandfather has alzheimers, and lately, he's been overfeeding his dog to an alarming degree. the dog, princess, is quite old and already very overweight. one single bag of treats is supposed to last at least a month and a half. last week, he fed her two entire bags.my grandmother has tried telling him that he can't do that, but he's just not understanding (which, of course, is not his fault). hiding the treat bags won't do any good, as he'll just drive to the store and buy more on his own.princess isn't in the greatest health and we're all worried about the effects that my grandfather overfeeding her will have, but there isn't much we can do to stop him from doing it. does anybody have any ideas as to how we should go about handling this?thank you

How to tell other family members that their parent has dementia?
it took me months to come to terms with my mom's dementia. and i got to see it firsthand. it's going to be hard to tell family members (i am leaving the state) that they will need to step up (which they will, they're very good about that) in specific ways regarding dementia. my dad doesn't want to do it because he's been doing his whole avoidance routine (understandable but it sucks pushing for cognitive evals and having it take months.) but i think he'll be okay if i'm willing to break the news. what makes it harder is i don't normally talk to these family members. i'm not interested in having a sibling relationship with them but i will work with them in whatever way i can to help our parents. no matter how i broach it, it's going to be abrupt. i can't just ease them into it because we don't normally talk. does anyone have any suggestions? did someone break the news to you in a good or bad way that you can give me some pointers on? have you had to break the news to others?

How to help my dad help my mom?
hello all, thanks for taking the time to read this. i (31m) and trying to figure out how to help my parents. my mom (63) has been diagnosed with dementia. currently my dad (65) is her primary caretaker, but he is also a self employed salesman who normally would be out of the house most days making sales calls. thankfully (and not) due to covid he’s been home most of the time now. realistically, my mom needs to be somewhere with full time care, as the mental and physical toll of taking care of her is really weighing on my dad. the problem is that full time care in his area is something like $5k a month, which isn’t much less than my dad brings home. i’m obviously looking into what i can do to help financially but my wife and i are trying to pay off student loans in the hopes of starting a family soon. has anyone here found any good resources that might assist with full time care? medicaid is a last resort at best.

Why do primary care doctors resist referring the patient to someone qualified to conduct in-depth diagnostic tests?
i can't count the number of primary care physicians who don't want to go beyond the mini-mental exam.  i even had one yesterday tell me that there aren't other diagnostic tests!  what's up with this resistance??

Stumbled Across My Father's Search History
i don't know where else to talk about this, so i'm just going to post this here and ask for a little advice. my mother is 58. (diagnosed with early onset dementia at 51) for the  first six years of her diagnosis, i lived at home and helped care for her and have watched the illness take it's toll in the many ways it does. i moved out about a year ago, but still visit.i stay logged in my gmail account there, so i occasionally see random stuff my dad searches for when i'm at my house. usually, it's the usual sports car search or restaurant, but i came across something the other day that i still feel uneasy about. in my search history i saw, " alzheimer's final stages" and " final stages death'. i knew she was getting worse, (i had noticed her having difficulty swallowing and forming sentences on mother's day) seeing and being aware that he was privately concerned is pretty disturbing. mostly i just wanted to get this feeling off my chest. should i talk to my dad? i know if i'm feeling it he has to be feeling worse, i just don't know how to approach it.

Transporting a Dementia Patient home from the hospital
i (34f)am doing hospice/pallative care for my grandfather (84m) with stage 7 dementia. he came down with some orbital infection that is not pink eye (we've been on antibiotics for 5 days). my grandmother (80f) wants to take him to the hospital for a check-up since we can not show the dr in detail what is wrong over video appts. she is calling the ambulance tomorrow to take him in. he is non-ambulatory (non-walking) person with astasis (the inability to sit up or move on their own). how do we bring him home without a handicapped van. i live in the metropolitan area of san francisco but am currently in rural maryland and where i live there are transport companies you can call. i can not find any for the area that they live in. any maryland dr.s know if there any resources available? should i just attempt to pull the seats out of their suv? tia

Life Insurance Cancelled by LO
my mother, diagnosed with early onset, randomly decided to cancel her $500k life insurance policy that she's been paying for the last 15+ years. my brother and i found out the next week, and we called the life insurance company, but they would not re-instate the policy. my mother claims that my brother told her to do so... which obviously wouldn't be true.any thoughts on this?

Moving Aging Family to Memory Care…Any tips to help things go more smoothly?
hi folks,no need for a long post here, but we have an aging family member (in her 90’s) who’s currently in an assisted living community. her doctors and the current director of her community have helped us understand that she’s ready for the next level of care, and i think we’ve found a great place for her (very close to us as family, very nice facility with people who seem at her level of dementia), but she’s adamant that she will not move and the police will have to come and take her to jail before she’ll leave. she’s angry and now screaming obscenities at the current staff and residents any time she sees them. we’ve tried to be supportive and manage the fear that we know she must have, but the move date is coming up quick, and we’re increasingly worried that we wont be able to get her out of the room. does anyone have any tips or thoughts on things that worked well for them that we could try to help support her during a tough time?thanks for the help!

Is my final grandfather's alzheimers in its last stage?
it has been a year since my grandfather became very disoriented, he kept forgetting things, react slowly to conversations, you know, the usual stuff. this january his symptoms got worse as he had absolutely no idea where he was going, what he was doing, he would forget my name, my parents' names, and his surroundings, etc. he would confuse us for other people or hallucinate and talk to his dead relatives.4 days ago he woke up during the night to wander and unfortunately fell and broke his leg and he has been laying in bed the whole time barely keeping his eyes open and my father had to feed him and give him water. surprisingly he knew when food was going to his mouth and chewed and drank water but since yesterday he has been breathing heavily, can't open his eyes and can't say a single word, as if 90% of his brain has completely shut down. i am guessing that he has a few more hours left to live? we are expecting him to pass away any moment, this sucks.could this be the final stage? he just can't get any better no matter what we do, right?p.s. apologies for the typo in the title.

How long is left?
my grandmother has had dementia for a few years now. started slow and as of the last 6 months declined very noticeably. is the rate at which a person "decays" the same or do people ride it out a lot longer? of recent she is forgetting where she is and asking who certain people are (rarer) but generally confusion about everyday tasks. when will it get to the point where she will not recognise most people anymore and how best can one prepare for such a horrible time?

Possible misdiagnosis?
my father has several underlying conditions, was prescribed several medications, and all of a sudden had an event in april where he was suddenly confused and we took him to the ed.  he was admitted and then we were told he had hospital delirium.  they could not determine cause, then finally after a few days he had a pet scan which showed only mild onset of alzheimers.  we were told because of his high intelligence that he has been hiding it for years. two months ago he was correcting my math on a bill, and only showed normal type of older age forgetfulness.  within 1 week of his diagnosis he was showing more typical signs of alzheimer's but it was like we lost him in a week.  he was put on haldol to calm him and now he only has some moments of lucidity.  he has been declining rapidly. has anyone had any experience with misdiagnosis, or conversely such a rapid switch from normal to full on alzheimer's, within the course of a couple of weeks?

When should I be concerned about my parents cognition, and what can I even do?
my dad has never been particularly bright or observant, but lately it is getting to be so difficult to be around him. he has trouble following conversations. if we are talking to someone he usually comes to a completely different conclusion than me. and he is constantly only talking to other people about himself, almost like an adolescent. one thing that drives me nuts is if we watch the news or a movie he somehow misinterprets the entire plot or storyline. he no longer understands context in conversation either. so he still unloads the dishwasher and does laundry, but if you ask something like “is that clean” while he’s doing it he’s genuinely confused as to what you’re asking. hes forgetful to the max, always arguing with customer service reps over misunderstanding his bill or forgetting passwords. he's 65, and has always been slim. he has passed out quite frequently from low glucose, and i think that might have some effect?he’s opposed to going to a shrink, so what are my options?

Vocalizations? Speech therapy? I don't know what to do
my dad suddenly experienced symptoms of dementia following heart surgery. at first the hospital said he was suffering from delirium, but going on two years, he still can't focus, has trouble understanding, and can't do basic things without help.a few months after the delirium/paranoia subsided, he developed a kind of nervous tick of whistling \*constantly\*. this eventually turned into a gargled swishing of air, and now it's just him grunting and making noises rhythmically. now, he can't  get out more than one word at a time without stuttering to a stop, and he \*only\* stops vocalizing if he's focussed on the tv or sleeping (when he has to get up and move it sounds like an engine sputtering to life).i don't know if this is actually dementia, but allegedly his brain doesn't have any visible damage from being intubated, and it's clearly getting worse but he can't focus long enough to get anything out of speech therapy.my mom is the one who has to live with it, so she just brushes it off. he gets frustrated because he can't get his point across. is there any other therapy he could try? or is this something that will continue to get worse from here on out?&amp;#x200b;tl;drmy dad is constantly (and i mean almost as constant as breathing) making rhythmic noises and stuttering but can't focus long enough to get through a speech therapy session.

Non-stop talking all the time or nothing.
so my 83 yo dad will talk to himself non stop or not talk at all, there is no in between. it's keeping me awake and i'm becoming really sleep deprived! mum told his doctor and all they said was to put him in a nursing home and apparently they were really rude about it. he still showers and even makes himself breakfast, he doesn't need to be in a nursing home.surely talking that much can't be good for him? it's for hours on end, and he gets angry and sometimes even makes scary demonic noises. i would have thought a mild sedative or something would help. it was just his gp though, so would it be worth going back to the dementia specialist? this gp has been really rude before too so mum will be taking him to a different one from now on.

Developing an app for caregivers and would love to hear from you.
to all caregivers of people with early dementia, i am developing an app that might be beneficial for you. it helps self-assessment of presence for dementia for you and your loved ones and also provides caregiver support. would you be keen to have a chat? it's still in the development process but we hope to launch it by early 2021. if you're open to having a chat to understand your situation better, also for me to share the app with you, please sign up at [ hope that we can help each other, and help the community in the process.

Mental illness or dementia or both
my 76 yo sister has severe dementia.  she lives with her 79 yo  husband who is delusional and may have dementia.  her husband is making wild and hurtful accusations about me and one of  my sister's children.  he accused me of stealing his mail and making my sister so mad that my sister punched me.   he accused his daughter in law of having a sexual relationship with her father, an ex-husband of my sister.  this is completely made up, but it is true i don't like him or the way he treats my sister.  i know something is wrong but is it dementia?

Any ideas of activities for a man with dementia who only enjoys tasks with a purpose and used to love volunteering?
my mother recently became the caregiver of her father who has stroke induceded dementia. he hates activities that don't have a purpose. for example he hates puzzles or coloring, but will fold towels and dry dishes because it's a purposeful task. he used to love volunteering and always had a handyman project to do. i'd love to find some sort of project he could do at home and donate or something along those lines that would give him a sense of purpose. he is a fall risk btw. any ideas? thanks

Donepezil Miracle?
\*cross-reference post titled "good days, bad days" for more detail\*my mother has vascular dementia. i've been staying with my parents (i live out of town) for almost two weeks. all but three have been days filled with rage, paranoia, and accusations. she wanders. it's been awful (as you know) for my father more than anyone. after a massive scene that lasted an hour, we got her to the neurologist yesterday. he put her on donepezil, with two more meds to follow. yesterday was a nightmare. she took her first dose this morning and....it's been incredible. it's like someone threw a switch. does donepezil (aricept) work that fast?

driving while having dementia
my parent has cardio-vascular dementia. it is well treated, but a steady decline is ongoing anyways. her doctor has said yes to her driving a car without seeing her or testing her cognitive state.i'm very worried! i don't think she should drive. and today the question was brought up. - she mentioned that my sibling was against her driving, and i said: so am i.  i think that your slow reaction time and your damages in your visual cortex makes it irresponsebly to drive. you should't. you can afford to take a cab everytime, and you should do that.  my parent said: now you made me sad!   what to do?

How to help my Mom (the main caregiver)
my mom is under tremendous stress. her husband is 24 yrs older than her and has dementia and strokes. he’s been in assisted care since the fall, but may have to come home due to costs (he also has to have private aides). every day adds stress to her mind and heart. it’s the worst thing in the world. she won’t listen to anyone and just constantly breaks down, saying she gives up, doesn’t want to do it anymore. she won’t go for therapy or get help. i feel awful and i’m at wits end. my dad is old and has the best care-my mom is floundering and i am concerned about her. what can i do? how do you help a caregiver when they won’t relinquish control or accept any help?

Mother with FTD PPA plucking / cutting hair
hi all, first time post here so i’ll keep it brief. my 60 year old mother (who has ftd ppa and has for at least 5 years) just recently began using her tweezers to pluck hair along the natural “part” of her hair (i imagine she was focusing on the gray hairs and got carried away).  in response, we took away the tweezers.  a week later, she took scissors to the same spot, she now has virtually no hair in this 1-1.5 inch gap.  in response, we took every pair of scissors in the house this time. has anyone experienced this?  if so, how did you respond and what type of behavior did you see next?  any other advice we should consider?i always appreciate these communities because you make us think of things that we previously had not.  thank you and stay strong.

Psychotic symptoms relates to dementia?
not sure if its a right sub to post. my grandpas sister has been living alone since her brother passed away. she then developed psychotic symptoms, claiming people trying to spread drugs into her house, disturb her sleep by stealing her electricities. it was one day we realized she has been sealing all her windows with tapes and not using eletricity in fear that those people would steal her eletricity. she doesn’t use stove, fan, lights in the house. by the sunset she lock herself in the house. she sleeps in the paper box. we set up secure camera for her but she still claim those imaginary people trying to drug her.we tried to bring her to hospital but she wouldn’t accept this is psychotic or any dementia related condition. eventually she claims those people who try to harm her also shot her in the knee thats why she has pain in the knee. but in fact she is 80+ old, its a condition of aging, which i believe the lack of joint fluid. we have been buying things just to make her feel safe but nothing works because of her constant fear. i believe its relate to dementia, any idea how to solve this situation?

How to deal with a loved one’s Alzheimers?
so, my grandpa’s been diagnosed with alzheimers/dementia for the past several years, and has recently been put in more intense care as it gets more severe. i’ve still been trying to deal with it, as he doesn’t even recognize me or my mother anymore. i’ve been keeping quiet about it because i feel like i’d be putting more pressure on my family by talking to them about it, and i’m not even sure they can handle it themselves.what do i do? he’s the only living genetic grandparent i have left, and i just can’t take it.

My 64 year old father is quickly declining
i was able to visit my dad (64) this april for the first time in many years and after his diagnosis. he was worse in person that i had realized in our phone conversations. today his gf who has always been the one constant for him but he now no longer recognizes called to tell me how worried she is. he is agitated and confused more often than not. he is depressed, hardly eats and recently has become somewhat forceful with his sex drive. she is stressed after losing her own mother to dementia earlier this month and can’t properly care for him or keep an eye on him. she’s trying to get him on medicare and he is already receiving some disability but i’m not sure what steps i need to take to find a facility for him while also moving him back up north. we both agree he needs more care than he is receiving but he is a very stubborn guy and none of us are financially in a place to do much at the moment. anyone able to offer any tips or anything at all to help? i have no idea what i’m doing besides worrying and stressing about it all.

Mom has started wandering and leaving the house...what now?
i have posted here in the past as we were finding out more details about my mom's condition and now that it we got the official "cjd" diagnosis, things have been at a rapid decline. my dad has hired a caregiver to be at the house with him 5 days a week but my mom has started leaving the house at night.my dad will put her to bed and go brush his teeth only to come back to her not in bed anymore. it has only been one week of this happening but she has gone outside three times thus far. what is the best course of action? do we block all the doors? lock her in the bedroom? &amp;#x200b;thanks in advance for any input.

How do you keep moving on with your life while being a caretaker for someone with Alzheimers?
i have to move to another city soon to join my husband,i want to pursue a second career and focus on my health. i am willing to finance a daycare service for my mom with early onset alzheimer’s to make life a bit easier for my dad, but he is angry at me and saying i am abandoning them. i feel torn between my husband and my parents, i’m only 24 and should be working on starting my own family but alzheimers seems to put everything aside. any advice?

He's gone
my father is 75 and has had a surgery in september for a liver problem. now it's been one week he's acting crazy and saying nonsense, he can't remember that he has kids (he has 7 kids). he was sent in emergency hospital yesterday but they found nothing, he's back to the health center, he's better physically but he's still saying nonsense apparently.i'm living 900 km away from him and i only get news by my sisters who lives not far from the health house. alzheimers was never mentioned and i don't quite know what it looks like but this looks like it right?my grandma also had alzheimers in the end so i'm less and less optimistic for my father.how many time do an alzheimers patient can live? i only go back to my childhood's place in christmas and i don't want him to die before i can see him one last time.sorry for the broken english, it's not my main language and i'm a little bit stressed.

Adventures in living in the moment...
my mil was curled up in our big electric recliner and looked a little sad.  so i asked her, "hey sweetie, what's wrong?"she replied, "so, i guess i've been stood up.""oh my," i said."i was really looking forward to going out for dinner and dancing," she said.'men really can be unreliable," i replied.  "want to go for ice cream?""yes. it's better than sitting around and feeling sorry for myself."

When they won't quit creating financial dumpster fires, what to do?
my mom has reached a point where she can no longer manage her home. she can't remember when she's had anything repaired and gets taken advantage of. she has an insurance claim and screws that up by telling them not to pay her for most of it. she tries to schedule travel and gets the dates wrong even though it's all written out in front of her. none of us (her kids) is old enough or has the time to be taking over her home for her, and even if we did by the time we find out about something (like a new roof she needed) she has already completely fucked it up. yet she insists she's not leaving her house. we considered in home care, but then we would still be managing the dumpster fires created when she hires somebody to do something that doesn't need to be done, and also trying to manage the in home care people. i don't really see what option we have at this point other than to find a good assisted living place for her with memory care. does anybody have any suggestions for how to handle this? she is already mad at everybody (we are conspiring against her) and said she's not telling anybody anything anymore. so pretty much she will hide even more than she has been. 

I need help on what activities are good for dementia care
my relative has dementia. and i'm shopping around some activities for him. so far i have mix and match card games. (i turn cards over and he picks two and i flip them only for him to try to remember where previous cards were). i also got a coloring book. which is better for coloring. markers, crayons or pens ?any advice i can have for activities?

Home aide Background Check
we're considering hiring an in home aide that doesn't work through an agency. we've never completed a background check and we're looking for any feedback on the process. do we need just the ssn and dob from the aide? what information can we obtain? we are in ny btw.

Refusal of professional care
tldr; curious how folks here have dealt with refusal of professional care.details:i have a family member with developing dementia, where the deficits are growing as is the need for continuous supervision. they can at home afford care, and were clear in the past that they preferred that over being in a long term care facility if the need ever came.the time has come where care is needed, but they stubbornly refuse. part of it is due to not knowing there is a deficit, which is a horrible part of the illness. this person doesn’t remember that they’ve needed continuous interventions every day. at the same time they are not so far gone that they can’t live some facsimile of their old sedentary life (save for lots of help). there’s no reasoning with them. but also, this is a person who has lived their life never acquiescing to anything. and they have no problem being actively hostile if things aren’t their way. for now this is causing major issues to the family, who are forced to take the care giver role.how have people dealt with the situation successfully? it seems we will just have to force a care giver into the home, whether they want it or not. we’re not sure there’s any good way of doing it that may make things smoother.

How do we find a nursing home?
my mother in law is in the hospital after having a dementia-related breakdown. she had been in assisted living, but it is time to move her somewhere with more care, preferably till the end of her life (probably 6 mos to a year). all the places we’ve called who say they specialize in memory care and end of life won’t take her because she is too far gone? we are looking in a major metropolitan are in the us, so there are lots of options, but it seems no one will take her? what’s the deal and what do we do?

change hospice service?
my dad is on hospice now and on multiple occasions i've had to call after hours for the on-call nurse and my calls have gone to voicemail. while this is annoying, i understand that they can't always be available and something else might have come up that they are addressing. however, they never even call back to follow up and ask if everything is okay. if you were in this situation would you change hospice providers? i just don't know much about it and am wondering if it's going to be a hassle to switch.

Finding a live-in caregiver
it's getting to the point where i'd like to find a live-in caregiver for my mom. i'm not really sure where to start in terms of finding one, so here i am. basic questions i have that maybe some of you can help answer:* where is the best place to get started when looking for one?* what should i expect in terms of compensation beyond free room/board

Dementia and ID question
i am one year into remote caregiving for my uncle-in-law larry who lives states away in memory care.   my mil, his sister, is his poa and is possession of his drivers license. he of course is not driving or flying, but many places often will not accept expired id. have any of you had occasion to need id for your dementia loved one?

[deleted by user]
i have found that it’s rather complicated to address a situation in public to my grandma with alzheimer’s. i’m visiting my grandparents in my home country germany where covid rules have barely started lifting. she is fairly good at understanding when to put her mask on however some rules she doesn’t understand. we were at a restaurant where they had a salad buffet and in order to use the serving spoons you had to wear plastic gloves to pick up the spoons. instead of picking up the spoon and putting dressing on her plate she took off her plastic glove, dipped her finger into the dressing and licked her finger. before she could dip her finger in the other dressings, my brother stopped her to which she told him to piss off. how can we explain to her that she should not do that without making her defensive or upset? any help would be truly appreciated as other scenarios like this (ie. eating grocery store fruit in the middle of the store) have happened as well.

Has anyone moved a loved into a care home during the lockdown?
it is possible that my grandma may be moved into a care home soon but i'm worried how it will go during the lockdown. i'm struggling so bad and this is what we really need to do but now because of the virus i might need to hang on longer.   i don't know how i could face leaving her and not being able to go in with her or even being able to visit her especially to settle in.  has anyone done this recently?

seeking tips for upcoming trip with grandma
hi there, there is a trip to a camp that our family has made every year for 50 years. it's a regional conference for churches which my grandparents have always loved. however, many people in their generation have passed on or are not able to travel. also... grandpa passed away a few months ago from a very brief bout of cancer.most of the time grandma does not seem to be aware that grandpa has passed away, she is calm when we don't mention him outright and can get very very upset sometimes when his illness and death are recalled. it's like she's experiencing it all over again, with the added pain that she can't go visit him or see him again. they were married 65 years.this will be the first year without grandpa. she is 88. she can walk around and is very familiar with this camp in one sense, but in another sense she doesn't even remember that she still lives in her own home. she is aware that she has a relationship with her daughters and me, but does not recall the type of relationship (mother/daughter, granddaughter) or our names or how long we all know each other or, again, where she even is at the time (one of our homes which she should know)... so any tips please?! how to keep track of her while retaining her dignity and self respect. we have a room in the lodge right across from the bathroom and i want to hang a sign on the door with her name or our family name so she will think to herself "well, this must be my room."is it realistic to ask friends from the camp to keep from talking about grandpa's illness and death too much? i would rather have her recall happy memories/her emotions about being near him and connected to him.

Feel bad about thinking this, but need to get it out there
so have a relative with dementia, and her relatives already moved them out of her home for her safety and sold it and most of her worldly possessions, moving them to a retirement home. now she is always wondering, "when will i be going home to (city)" and is suffering in a place far away. so was thinking that it would have been better for her if she had stayed in her home and eventually died there rather than live in this nightmare fog for the rest of her days. is that horrible?

Activities for an older man to do alone?
hi all. my grandfather is recently widowed. family visits him a lot during the day but he lives alone and gets bored in the evenings. he has mild dementia. he no longer enjoys watching tv or reading. he is sick of doing word searches, coloring, and puzzles. a lot of the other advice i've seen on here are activities for women (e.g. simple cooking and cleaning), which he has never done. any suggestions for simple activities that he can do alone that don't require a ton of memory or concentration? 

Uncle recently diagnosed with Dementia, normal to give you two different answers?
my uncle was recently diagnosed with dementia after suffering from a mild stroke. some of the family is taking care of him but one of the things that stands out is how he will never give the same answer if you ask him a question.he will usually answer in just one word, usually a "yes" or "no," but then if you ask him the exact same question a little bit later he'll give the complete opposite answer. the doctors said he could go back to work and even drive, but this has some of his family worried because if he can't give consistent answers and things how is he supposed to be able to drive and do his normal work?just wondering if this is normal for anyone that might have seen a loved one go through this horrible disease. 

Dementia training with focus on Younger Onset *Australia*
tomorrow i am attending training as mentioned in the tagline. anyone know of some good resources i can read up on today to prepare? i currently work in aged care and work in a racf with a focus on ageing in place, but we also have a dementia ward. at the moment we only have 1 resident with younger onset dementia so i am feeling a bit unprepared. what should i expect in training?

Am I in denial or just hopeful- any help appreciated
i’m crying as i write this as i can’t even handle the wave of emotions coming my way.my dad was diagnosed two years ago with early dementia (58 years old). at the time he was drinking and eating unwell somewhat regularly. i refused to believe he had dementia and told him he needed to make lifestyle changes. fast forward to today and he is in great shape, eating clean and working out consistently. when i talk to him i only notice improvements in memory. i do small ‘tests’ where i refer to something we spoke about previously and he is able to answer my questions.today my mom called me to tell me his dementia is taking a turn for the worse because he can’t remember passwords or the names of people he plays pickle ball with often. i’m bad with passwords and names too! am i in complete denial? i tried to look up some things about alzheimer’s and i went in to full panic attack thinking he will be dead in 5 years.does anyone have any stories or hope where their loved ones were diagnosed but they still stayed ‘okay’ for a really long time after? i’m a total mess right now and need a voice of reason.

Agression in advanced Alzheimers
so my father (70) who was diagnosed about 8 years is now beginning to get very aggressive with my mother every morning and is even trying to kick her out of the house. the doc recommended we give him valium. has anyone else had experience with this? we're (his family) at the stage now were we don't mind if he's drugged up to his eyeballs, as long as the aggression goes

Resources for young children living with a grandparent who has advancing Alzheimer's?
i have a friend who is currently caring for her father with advanced alzheimer's in her home. she has a lot of support from community, family, and medical staff, but what she doesn't have are any resources to help her elementary school age children deal with the impacts of this disease. there are books and support groups for her, but nothing for her kids. her father may well be moving into a nursing care facility soon, but even then her children won't be unaware or in the dark about their grandfather. is there anything out there to help young children?

Does each new "trauma" really add years to the brain age?
i read online, that each new "trauma" adds years to the brain's age. i find this very hard to believe, because think about high stress jobs, and what is really the definition of trauma anyway? emotional? physical hit to the head.the article said, that a lifetime of "trauma" events, like, losing a loved one, abruptly moving house, getting assaulted, witnessing assault, that each event adds something like months or maybe 1 year to your brain age. i find this really hard to believe. is this really going to just keep ageing your brain?you would think that people in a traumatic job, such as, the army or police, would somehow have the brain age of an 80-year-old by age 30 or something, if this were the case.does anyone know anything about this subject?

Increased sensitivity to temperature due to dementia
i've been dealing mostly with my dad who has stage 5 alzheinmers. he has been easy, however, because he is fairly passive with care and still maintains a pleasant demeanor. my mom has mild dementia. however, she has an increased preoccupation with temperature. the room is either too hot or too cold and she is constantly getting up to adjust the thermostat. has anyone else experienced this or could it be caused by dementia? it is starting to get out of hand. last night, she had staff at her facility call me at 11:30pm to ask about it.

What do I say to my mum who’s always moaning about my dad (her carer)?
my mum has early onset alzheimer’s and my dad is her primary carer. every time i go round to their house she is constantly moaning about him to me. to her, he’s always busy and tired and irritable and confusing. she blames him for how bored she is all the time and how lost she’s feeling. she knows that something isn’t right, and she assumes it’s his fault, and is constantly angry at him for it. every time i see her she complains to me about him and i don’t know what to say. he does so much for her every day, and i know it hurts him to hear her talk about what a terrible husband he’s being. anyone experienced the same and have any advice or things that helped them?

Advice needed please ( in UK)
my mum, 75, diagnosed 2 years ago with alzheimers  &amp; vascular dementia, mild to moderate.  she lives alone and manages her day daily washing clothing and feeding herself etc.  she knows to pay bills although need prompting towards amounts.  she is forgetful and bad with names etc. recently she sees a man and woman in a window and she thinks they r warning her that covid19 is near, a carer found her walking in hoisexalone with a mask on pointing towards the man and woman in window.  i rang her and she seemed happy enough, i think it me reminding her to wear mask in shop that caused her alarm.  as her condition has deteriorated do i need to let her doctor know , would they consider changing her meds etc.  or will a doctor just say keep them updated if she needs more help ? i'm her only child with no family near by so its up to me to do anything needed for her but i don't know what to do .

My mom was just diagnosed with dementia, and we are seeing a neurologist on Thursday for the first time...
my mom (55) was just diagnosed. we are seeing a neurologist on thursday. i'm new to this. what questions should we be asking her doctors? are there any must-read books or resources i may be unaware of?appreciate any guidance...

Medical question - fevers
my stepmom was hospitalized a couple days ago due to a fever of 102, causing her to become lethargic, confused, unable to speak or walk. (she has alzheimer's, vascular, i think.) she became almost comatose at one point. the fever has been coming and going-- 102.5 last night, normal this morning, back up to 103 at dinnertime and now back to normal. the nurses seem to think this is nothing to be concerned about, but i've never heard of a fever behaving this way. they can't find a cause for the fever either. it's not flu or uti, her chest xray is clear, she's even had a cat scan that didn't show anything.anyway, i was wondering if the alzheimer's brain damage could be affecting her body's temperature regulation somehow? is it possible for her body's "thermostat" to have become damaged from the alzheimer's? she gets more lucid as her temp become more normal, but then relapses when the temp spikes again.

Request: Conversation topics via phone or in person
my mother has some sort of aggressive early onset alzheimers. seems like before i knew it she couldn't incorporate nouns or verbs into any sort of conversation. what are some easy topics or conversation methods i can stick to when i try to talk to her? normal conversation is virtually impossible and i often find myself choked up at the loss of any idea of what she's trying to say.

I think I have chemically induced dementia, 26 m
well, this is going to be an unconventional post because i'm a 26 year old man, who has autism and type 1 diabetes. i also have a chemically-induced brain injury about 8 years ago, it hasn't been addressed until 3 years ago when i finally told the doctors and the doctors said that they couldn't do anything because the poison could have been anything because there are so many different types out there.i poisoned myself kind of accidently, it was an attempt to get high legally.the day after the poisoning, i could no longer think as well as i used to, it literally happened overnight. if you could picture a healthy mind as an arm holding a handle turning a gear, the poison took that arm away and the gear got rusty only just about turning by itself, thinking doesn't work anymore it's just static.i've been able to adapt to this impairment and change, by being more of a physical person, since my mind can no longer be manually used i had to physically do things to get it out there.my memory is intact, as far as i know, but it feels like my thoughts and memories can no longer be properly accessed and eventually they will fade out due to the lack of access, like when a plant dies without water. i usually forget to flush the toilet when i take a shit, i always lose my phone, i never remember the small details or what people have just told me, i can only remember the general situation not the details like where my phone is or what exactly did my dad say. today i've had a bad day, a kind of fog came over me, it was more emotional though, i stopped what i was doing i was scared to walk, scared to do anything, everything seemed scary, and all i wanted to do was to curl up in a corner and escape my life or reality. i just went to go back to the time before i poisoned myself and avoid doing it in the first place.at first i felt like i was living 80 percent of my life, recently it feels like i'm living 50 percent. i feel kinda empty and very foggy, my emotions are clogged too, to the point where i could commit crimes without shedding a tear. and in the past few years i have been going out causing criminal damage to cars and windows, i've payed for those damages the police knocked on my door, i live with my dad, on those nights i was filled with dread i wanted to die, all i wanted to do was get outside and get myself killed.i'm tired. i'm not sure how long i can do this, i have lost my soul. could it be dementia or just a brain injury? what else could it be?

Vertigo common in dementia patients ?
my mom(68f) got spanish influenza several years ago. hospitalized for several weeks but she recovered and lives a somewhat normal life. she has had continual memory issues and has trouble speaking due to part of her brain being injured from going septic. she’s worked with therapists and speech therapists and she’s doing alright for what it is but she often forgets conversations we’ve had or my siblings have had. she’s locked herself out of the house forgetting her key- stuff like that. but in the past few years, she’s developed vertigo and impacts her life often. my brother and i suspect a lot of her memory issues are from early stages of dementia (also her being sick didn’t help) do dementia and vertigo hand in hand? she ends up in the er several times a year from it and my dad works at the local prison so he is gone a lot. i worry about her being alone as she gets older and wonder how i can help her as symptoms get worse. her parents died in their 60s so we never saw how they aged (if they got dementia or alzheimer’s or nothing at all). is this a common progression?

When to get outside assistance with dad?
my 87 yo father with moderate dementia lives with me and my 2 kids.  i am trying to figure out when to start with getting assistance in the house - does anyone have any tips?  he sleeps a lot so i don't think full-time assistance is needed, but i work from home at a relatively demanding and technical job that requires a lot of attention so i am not spending time with him during the day. what's a good way to start?

What kind of dementia could this be?
my father had his second stroke about 6-7 months ago due to his unhealthy living after the first one(diabetes, cigarette...etc).he is 55 years old. recently, i noticed him saying things out of the context. he is also aware of this. today, he told me that he thinks he has dementia. he is mostly a sensible person for now, doesn't do much in daily life for us to be able to really test him. he is sort of aggressive though and i cannot really connect with him as much as i used to. i was wondering, what kind of dementia would this stroke-related one be...will it certainly get worse over time if he does not get anymore strokes for instance?or will it progress regardless of whether he gets a stroke?

Laying down memories in the hippocampus before recalling
my dad, 86, actually had a good memory at this point but abnormally he recalls most new memories as ‘we’ve done this before’ or ‘as you know’ - even if it’s definitely not been done before. one theory someone mentioned is that he could be laying down a new memory and then recalling it, thus getting confused about new experiences or old memories. is this a thing?

Gran wandering around the hallway at night ringing her emergency bell at 2am waking everybody up. When asked she said it was our Late Granddad who woke her up and she was trying to find him. We still don’t know why she had the bell.
it’s not easy to watch her slowly lose her logic and memory abilities.luckily she is still the kind woman she always has been. but it’s sad. she is the closest grandparent out of all 4 for me. i can feel the relationship we has fading away. does anyone else feel this way? i don’t know how to keep that relationship going anymore..

Where are poorer dementia patients going?
we finally have dad settled in a memory care unit. it's $7,500 a month. fortunately he has enough of an estate to cover his care. but it got me thinking that there must be thousands and thousands of people who can't afford this type of care. what happens to those folks who can no longer care for themselves and have no resources?

My mom is at the end of her rope with my father, what other options are there?
my father is 57. in his early 50s, he started displaying symptoms that are supposedly reflective of lewy body dementia. my mother cared for him with no real issue up until about a year ago, when he started going downhill fast (hallucinations, alien hand, etc.). a few months ago, it finally got to be too much for her to care for, so she got him into a local (billings, mt) memory care facility. after a couple months, he was kicked out because he presented a danger to the other (much older) residents during his hallucinations. she tried to take care of him again, but he's quite incapable of even figuring out how to help himself up if he sits down, and that idea was quickly discarded. she got him into another memory care facility in town, and after three days, he's getting kicked out again. there's not a real wealth of options around here, and even still, i'm guessing two bad referrals will keep him out of any other traditional mental care facility. is the state hospital his only choice? or are there other options out there? if we can even get him into the state hospital, what happens when the 190 days they allow run out (supposing he lives that long)?

Does anyone have any tips for loved ones who refuse to let you take care of them (e.g. won’t take their medication, won’t shower, won’t change clothes, etc.)
my loved one has recently become more aggressive and oppositional as her condition has worsened and it’s becoming difficult to care for her. it’s becoming very hard to get her to shower, change her clothes, take her medication, etc.i don’t really know what to do. she’s turned against me and i’ve suddenly become the enemy in her mind.. she thinks that i’m trying to poison her, says that i’ve put voices in her head and has other similar delusions about me.does anyone have any tips for solving this?

Recommendation for digital picture frame?
i would like to buy a digital picture frame for my parents (mother has dementia, father is care-take).  this frame would be a good way to orient my mother to everything when she asks.  additionally, it'd be a good way for distant family to keep my parents up to date with pictures of grandkids.so, i'm looking for a digital picture frame that is easy to set up and use, accesses wifi, and enables family to upload pictures remotely.can anyone recommend a frame that they've personally had success with?  it does not need to be large.

Help needed reaching dad.
my father has been showing signs of dementia/alzheimer’s/lewy body and my mother is bearing the brunt of his care and supervision. she reached out to me asking for help, but i thought i would ask here to see if anyone has already tackled this. my dad was always very good with technology, he was instrumental in the early days of fiber optics and telecommunication, but those skills seem to be going the fastest. my mom is frustrated because she is not able to get in touch with him if she has to leave the house. when the phone rings he will try to answer the tv remote. this ends up with mom not talking to dad, and the tv being inputs being changed to the point he can’t figure out how to get back to his shows. mom is looking for some kind of solution that 1) he does not have to keep up with or remember where he set it down, 2) requires minimal steps/button presses to access. my first two thoughts were either a smart watch that receives calls, or something like an alexa or google assistant. do any of you have any experience that may help?  any preferences or suggestions based on the options above?  thanks for your time.

"Call your mom. She's having a meltdown."
my father and i can't come to an agreement on what to do with my mother.i love my mom very much, but her dementia has progressed, making her extremely difficult to deal with.  lately if you suggest anything at all, she wants to pack up everything and move in with her last surviving sibling who lives 3000 miles away.my father frequently texts and asks me to call my mom to try to calm her down.  it doesn't work.  all she does is end up screaming at me, telling me to shut up, that i'm a horrible daughter, etc. i know this is the disease talking, but it's getting increasingly difficult to deal with, especially in the middle of my workday.  she now refuses to shower and threatens to leave almost daily.  she's actually left a few times and walked over 2 miles.   i think memory care is best, but my dad wants to keep her home.  i see where he's coming from, but we're all losing our minds in the process. how do you remain respectful to your parents as an adult child and stay supportive while keeping your sanity?  i'm exhausted and this has impacted my quality of life in multiple areas.

Just saying hi
new to the community but not the disease.  my dad (75) is in about stage 6 for vascular dementia - all stemming from a botched surgery.  i fear this next year.  anybody here relate to:* confusing tv with real life?* sleepless nights / sleeps all day?* irrational anger?* fixation on some detail?* 1000-yard stare?

Importance of repeat EEG after Diagnosis?
hey, my mom was diagnosed with lewy body back in 2019. her neurologist has been ordering an eeg every 6 months or so and i'm not sure why this is necessary. her boyfriend is convinced it's to "milk insurance." is this a common test to monitor progress of the disease or is this superfluous?

Is she still there?
i've never posted here before but i need to ask someone and i want to know what people have experienced.i'm about to lose my grandmother. she has pneumonia, her second lung infection in two months, and has been admitted. i don't think, nor does anyone, that she'll make it through this. what i want to know is if anyone feels the way i do. maybe this is just me coping, but i don't know if i'll be losing my baba when the woman in the hospital bed dies. i think i lost her a while ago. i don't know exactly when i had the final conversation with her, but i feel like my last couple of conversations have been with alzheimer's and not my baba. i think she disappeared a long time ago and this tired old woman is all that's left. is it true, or is she in there still, just unable to cry out? to me, i don't know how much i want her to keep 'living', if you can call it that. i think my baba died a while ago. is this just me coping?

alzheimers hip pad.
i am considering hip pad for alz. people falling. does it help?

[deleted by user]
my grandfather has recently been diagnosed with stage 4 pancreatic cancer and has been moved back home for care. he is bedridden and has nurses and psw's taking care of him as well as our family members. since his diagnosis, my grandmother has been declining mentally. earlier this year she had some kind of mental episode where we forgot the basics of where she was, what she was allowed to do, go to the bathroom, etc. she went on some medication and it helped bring her back to her normal self. she has been off these meds for a while now (not sure why she stopped taking them). my grandfather has been home for a out 2 weeks now and my grandmothers mental state has completely deteriorated. she is angry, paranoid, aggressive,  belligerent, and it's been getting worse every day. we have tried calling 911 and the paramedics have come 3 times now, but each time she sits and acts rude but completely calm so the paramedics say they can't do anything.she is refusing to go to the doctors or do anything that we ask her to (pee in a cup for the dr or eat or drink). we need to get her to the hospital asap and we don't know what to do or how to do it. i'm in ontario canada, can anyone provide any kind of tips or what we should be doing? please help :(

My mom's stance on why she won't get help for my grandparents - but is it true?
this feels really silly to ask but here we go. my grandparents are starting to lose their memories and are rapidly declining. my mom is their primary caregiver right now and it’s becoming too much. my family has been trying to talk to her about getting them more professional help or taking them to an assisted living facility. however, her argument is that there’s no place they can do and stay together. they live in florida and i’m wondering if anyone can tell me if that’s true?she said that if they need different care then they can’t stay together. one is showing more signs of dementia than the other and she claims that no place will allow them two different levels of care under the same roof. i have no idea if that’s true or not and am wondering if that’s a real thing?

[deleted by user]
father has been in a memory care facility for 3 weeks, but in the last week has been to the er twice by ambulance, fallen when agitated at night 6 or 7 times leading to compression fractures, and is growing more agitated and confused. he is also trying to remove his catheter in this state.we are concerned they will tell us they can’t handle him, but we don’t know what else to do? what’s the next level of care we need to be looking for? it took so much doing to get him placed and moved here, and now we are starting over.

What to say to a dying mother
my 85 yr mother is on palliative care and i’m seeing her in a few hours to say my goodbye. im truly terrified and don’t know what to do if she is mean to me. she’s been an abusive parent etc. but i don’t want her dying without someone saying they love her. she’s lost all her friends and has no one now. im all she has and that just kills me it makes me so sad that she’s rejected everyone inc me.i’ll go and sit with her but i’m so afraid of the grief that could surprise me. am i going to regret not staying for more than a few minutes? this is just awful i don’t want her to die.how do i do this? my stomachs in knots it’s too much

Exhausted but somewhat satisfied
for the first time in 2 years we had taken an evening off. we were going into town to see a concert. generally days pass with no issue but the one time we stray away where we aren't the closest people on call guess what happens?i (not her child, i'm her daughter in law) get the call that 'there is no power and i don't know what to do'. ffs. now what? call the other children, can you check on your mother please? call the care team, have you been in yet? can you sort it out?long, long, long story short, a bulb blew. one light bulb. i'm so damn tired of this but at the same time i'm also gratified that she still trusts me enough to be her first port of call in a storm. it's just such hard damn work and i'm really tired.

How tf do I cope with this.
first of all, i'm glad this sub exists. the fact that we all basically share similar experiences makes me feel less alone. so, i'm only 21 (about to turn 22) and my dad (in his late 70s) has had dementia for a long time, i'd say it started around 2015. last year he moved into a care facility, which is relieving on one hand, but on the other hand his dementia has progresses extremely fast in this past year. he doesn't recognize any of his family anymore, he needs to be fed and help on the toilet.he recently was in the hospital cause of kidney failure and since then it got even worse. he barely wakes up anymore and if he does, he is not present. just a body without a soul. basically i'm starting to prepare myself for his passing. my coping strategy so far has been surpressing everything. it's just too painful to let it get to me. i love my dad over everything, he means the world to me.so... how tf can i survive losing my dad this young? how do you even cope with that? how do you overcome losing the person you love the most?

Video about dementia
some time ago i saw a video that was and old song or album that got more and more distorted, aiming to represent the progress of dementia. now i can't find the video but i really want to see it again. does anybody have a link or know what video i'm talking about?

Hobby ideas for 82M w/dementia?
my dad with moderate dementia is still able to get out for walks, but mum &amp; he recently moved into a smaller independent apartment associated within a graduated care facility. he gets bored in the apartment and then goes for walks to find something to do, but this is becoming an issue. he needs a hobby to keep him occupied at home! not much yard. poor vision. poor hearing. he's never cared for delicate/careful work (like models or puzzles). we tried giving him a piece of furniture to restore but he slapped a coat of globby old paint on it and told us he'd finished the favour we needed and told us to take it back. he has a small yard and a garage to mess around in... anyone have suggestions?

Takes longer to gain attention/get response
my mom thinks my grandma is losing her hearing, but i think it's dementia related. it doesn't matter if there's no distractions, sometimes it takes calling her 5-6 times before she even answers "what." even if you're right there in her view/holding her hand/staring her dead in the eyes like all the articles day you should. if you ask a question ("do you want oatmeal?"), she gives a blank look or looks away like she's choosing to deliberately ignore you (i know she's not, i'm just describing to show why i think it's dementia related instead of just hearing loss.), or responds with a non-sequitur like "do you want oatmeal?" "that pillow has my name on it;" .

Those Who Have Seen Vascular Dementia
i am currently dealing with my mother slipping into some kind of dementia. we are having trouble getting her in to get an mri. she's 65, and long story short, she has become incrementally more and more bizarre but is only just now exhibiting some of the more classic early alzheimer's stuff (short term memory issues etc, all pretty mild, but very obvious). the thing that makes me wonder if it's vascular is that for like 20 years she'd go through really rough bouts of extreme weirdness, including paranoia, social inappropriateness, inability to focus, withdrawing, blunted affect etc etc. but each time, it would kind of stop, like a distinct event, and she'd plateau (though not improve or go back to as before) at a new level of weirdness. each plateau brought a new normal that we tried to live with. the last 10 years, these breaks and then plateaus have been significantly more marked. anyone with any insight into vascular dementia, does this sound familiar to you? can vascular dementia progress this way over a long period (decades) even starting in middle-life? thank you for reading.

Autopsy to find out if it was Alzheimer's or something else?
has anyone made the decision to have their loved one with dementia autopsied to find the precise cause of the dementia? my understanding is that the only way to know today if someone had alzheimer's is to look at the brain post mortem. would it be worth the additional effort at an already trying time to learn that to possibly benefit the children and grand children? or is there so little that can be done even if you find it was alzheimer's that - why bother?

Memory Care Facility Questions
on monday we are visiting a memory care facility for my mother-in-law. what questions should we ask to make sure we find a decent place for her?she’s 67 years old and was diagnosed last year. she saw a specialist last week for the first time and he confirmed that while she may have dementia, she has been suffering mini-strokes that have been slowly killing her brain. the result is symptoms that are basically identical to dementia. my husband said the person he spoke with said medicaid would only cover the total cost if she has less than $2k to her name. she currently has about $80k from her various pensions and savings over the years, and they said she could pay with her money (supplemented partially by medicaid) until she’s down to her last $2k and then let medicaid take over from there. we have no expectation of receiving any inheritance from her - we just want her to be someplace close to us so we can visit her for whatever time she has left. does this sound standard/ advantageous? what other questions should we be asking about finances/ quality of care/ etc.?thanks!

Possible dementia symptoms- what next?
my grandmother (78) has always been known for being a bit scatterbrained and making silly remarks, and we’ve always joked about it. last year, my aunt said she was more concerned about my grandmothers memory and that she was becoming more forgetful. we brushed it off as her just having a moment and the fact she is a little bit older, and that was fine. she’s perfectly lucid and has a quick, sharp wit. i saw her today and now i’m concerned- she was trying to tell a story about a family member and it took 4 or 5 attempts for her to get the story right, and that was with me asking her to clarify who she was talking about as she was getting names confused and my grandfather also intervened to correct her at one point. on the flip side, she remembered nearly every detail of something insignificant that happened 25 years ago (passing my parents car on a road in a tourist destination). she also has moments of forgetfulness in regard to her short term memory- you may speak to her and tell her you’re doing something and she’ll completely forget until you remind her and will be like “oh yeah”, and she often confuses details about stories. this is the first time where i am wondering if there is something more than just age-related confusion. can anyone give me advice on next steps or how i should approach this? i’m going to speak to my mother about it of course, but not sure what else i could do. there’s no other dementia in the family, apart from an aunt who is 105, so i don’t have much experience with this….

My Dad.
my dad has early onset accelerated alzheimer's.  it sucks and it's unfair. he has gone through so much in his life and this just seems like it's the icing on a cake made of shit. it started when he was 8 and his big brother died. then his 1st wife (my mum) cheat on him and left him for someone else. after this she died in a car accident. being a single parent is never easy. he then had to deal with his only child joining the navy and going off to war. not to mention getting bowel cancer 2 years before getting diagnosed with alzheimer's. why does it always seem as those people who have a lot happen to them get the short straw every time?

Whatever happened to treating Alzheimer's with Ultrasound?
i heard about treating alzheimer's with ultrasound from this article:my mom has an extremely high incidence of alzheimer's in her family so i want to be proactive. whatever happened to this treatment? i heard about it once, then heard nothing since then. is there anywhere i can sign my mom up for this?

Writing exercises for Alzheimer's sufferers?
hi there,i'll preface this right off the bat by being honest: i'm looking for a little advice about something i'm writing. i don't currently have a personal relationship to the disease (although my grandfather suffered from vascular dementia until he died a few years ago; so i'm familiar with a certain (albeit limited and tangential) degree of the symptoms and turbulence that can come with alzheimer's) - so if it seems like i'm being insensitive or definitely poking my nose around the wrong area, please feel free to kick me to the gutter.anyway, my question is really quite simple. i'm curious as to whether there are any recognised and supported writing exercises recommended for alzheimer's patients. i remember noticing my grandfather's ability to write his own name going quite early on in his dementia days (heartrendingly, i found a scrap of paper with his own name repeated on it several times...) and remember wondering at the time if there'd been any exercises or tests given to him by nursing staff.i know it's often encouraged to let them watch old videos, and read old books, letters and so forth. surely there must be some practical writing techniques to try and keep those 'muscles', so to speak, sharp? thanks very much for any replies and i wish you all the best!

How to interact with Alzheimers patients effectively?
as part of a weekend mission trip, the group i'm working with will be spending a day at a local nursing home. the coordinator for our group told us that we will be helping out at their st. patrick's day celebration and that we'll be working with the memory patients. she said it is possible that a few might mistake us for their children or loved ones. also, this summer, i most likely will be working as community service at a nursing home.can anyone give me any advice on how to interact with a stranger who has alzheimers so that the experience can be as pleasant as possible and so i don't upset them by accident? specifically, if they mistake me for someone else?

Take me to my house.
my grandmother and i have lived in the same trailer for the last 30 years. today she wanted me to take her to her house... there was no amount of logic that could convince her that she doesn't have a house. she doesn't believe me, my wife, or her daughter. has anyone else had similar experiences or know how to handle this?

Has anybody had a nursing home / memory care facility try to force out your relative after their private pay funds run out and they switch to medicaid? ...even though you met their guidelines when that relative was placed there? (details in body of post)
rather complicated scenario but my sister placed our mother in a nursing home / memory care facility a few years ago as mom came down with alzheimers. sis &amp; mom where much closer than mom &amp; i and so sis did all of the work since mom was more comfortable handing over poa to her, they lived in the same city, etc. everything was going fine, but then sis died (cancer) two years ago and so i've assumed all of the work she was doing -- poa, etc., though i live in a city 4 hours away from where mom lives in the nursing home. the deal this facility made with my sister was that if we "private pay" for at least two years, then once the "private pay" funds are all exhausted they will accept medicaid to cover her expenses there.they've repeated this to me and so far i've accepted it -- though they haven't provided this assurance in writing (i'm thinking of asking for this).but over the past year, i've noticed they are doing things that i suspect might be them getting ready to try to *discharge* mom from their facility once her private pay runs out -- even though they agreed to keep her. without getting into a lot of detail about what they are doing that has me thinking they are trying to *build a case to move her out* -- i'm wondering if others here have dealt with this and how did you handle it?i've read a few horror stories of *assisted living* facilities doing this by saying the patent fell -- discharging them to an er -- and then refusing to accept them back from the er saying they aren't equipped to handle a patient that has fall risk.but mom is not in an assisted living facility, she is in a full memory care facility with 24 hour nursing staffing. can a facility like this still try to play this game?my concern is that they wait until she transitions to medicaid -- then they try to force her out -- and then i'm stuck trying to find a place to move her that will accept 100% medicaid pay (because her private pay funds will be all gone at that point).  with covid now a thing -- it feels like it could be a new tool for such homes to use to force somebody out? send them to the er, and then refuse to take them back...am i worrying too much about something that has a super low chance of happening?

I miss my mum
i miss talking to my mum normally. she's deteriorated very quickly and can't convey her thoughts and feelings very well any more. it was only last year that we were chatting normally - feels like so long ago! how do you cope with knowing your loved one will never be the same again? it's hitting me hard tonight as we got some bad news today and i'm thinking about all the things that will never happen again...

Could this be dementia?
my mum is 62.she has diagnosed depression and several other ailments. shes on a lot of medication as well as sleeping pills that tend to make her very confused (she once started baking brownies and then went to sleep forgetting shed started. this happened about 6 years ago)she also doesn't sleep well due to restless leg syndrome and phantom pains in her amputated leg. two nights ago she didnt sleep at all as she didnt have a lot of her medication. we got her the medication yesterday and she slept most of the afternoon and all through the night.this morning she cleaned the entire fridge, did a whole bunch of other cleaning and then weny to go have breakfast. after breakfast she went to clean the fridge again and was shocked to find it clean thinking someone else did it. she didnt remember doing it herself.she doesnt normally forget whole events. more just small conversations etc and mostly only at night when shes taken her tablets. could this have been a result of the stress from lack of sleep and then taking all her medications or could it be dementia or alzheimers?

Sucking lip and has created huge lump that bleeds
at work i have a client who has down syndrome and very bad dementia she doesn't talk or walk anymore and is mostly bed ridden now.she started screaming almost all day for what we can find is no reason as she sadly can't communicate anymore she could be in pain or be reliving trauma. many doctors appointments to try and figure it out with no avail she gets great care. she is on abilify for her depression and is now on epilum for the screaming but she doesn't have epilepsy. she has started to suck on one side of her lip which has created a huge bruise and biting it also, honestly it looks so painful but she won't stop! its started to bleed does anyone have any recommendations such a pacifier? i know it doesn't look good as its for babies but she can't keep chewing her lipi was thinking maybe a face washer but she doesn't hold things so it would fall out.

My grandmother (81) just died the other day, she was suffering from dementia but was otherwise very healthy for her age. She had no other illnesses. Is it normal for a person with dementia to go from walking, talking, and being otherwise healthy to dead in less than a year?
just going through some videos and pictures for the funeral and found a video taken xmas 2019. in 2019 she was driving, doing well, she did have some very obvious declines in cognitive abilities but she was otherwise fine. xmas 2019 i saw her in the video she was completely lucid and happy and less than a year later she's dead. i can't imagine how this happened, is this normal?  thanks.

A question my mom asked me, and I was stumped.
in one of her moments of clarity (as i call them), she asked, "what is up next for me?  where am i supposed to go from here?"  i think she meant, "is the only thing i have to look forward to . . . my own death?"i didn't know what to say.   i see now that i could try to distract her from her depression, but i still feel dishonest.  she sometimes talks about what she'll do "when she gets better."    it breaks my heart.  what can i say to her?  

My mom can't stand straight at all (even while seating) and keeps falling - especially when sick/just vaccined
my mom has had an usual and early type of dementia for over three years now. her state has degraded very quickly over the years but something i've noticed is that it gets much worse when she 's sick/has a fever. for exemple, she got her third anti-covid dose yesterday and today, she has a fever and she's in a terrible state, completly absent, doesn't understand a thing, unable to eat, to walk or even sit. these are all things that are usually complicated but i think it has something to do with her fever...anyone else notice something similar ?in general, does anyone have the same problem with posture ? how do you deal with it ?

Does anyone hear their phantom phone ring?
i've been caring for my mom (from a distance) for a year and a half. i've called her just about everyday, twice a day since the beginning of the pandemic, trying to ensure she has at least one social connection a day. as well, due to my heavily involved role in her care, i'm sometimes on the phone constantly with doctors, caregivers pharmacists and so on.she's now at mid stage and will sometimes call me in a panic unsure if where she's supposed to be or wondering where her grandchildren are. it's awful and i'm always on high alert.and so, every once and a while, i'll jolt awake in the middle of the night because i hear my phone ringing when it's actually not. i'm always checking for a missed call. it occasionally happens in the daytime too; i'll hear that faint ring. does this happen to anyone else? i assume it'll continue to happen for a while, even after she's gone.

Pick's Disease
i hope i am posting this in the correct place. my mom passed away from pick's disease when i was younger. my dad always told me it had nothing to do with genetics and he didn't get me tested because it was no reason to. i was just wondering if anyone has gotten any testing in relation to this disease?  or if it even exists?  i don't trust my dad and i am having a hard time finding info online.  thank you!

My dad keeps choking on his food
my dad was diagnosed with fronto temporal dementia in december at age 62. it's been progressing very very fast for a while. one of the recent developments is that he has no control over himself when he eats. this is pretty common in fronto temporal dementia, so it's not very surprising, but it's a struggle. he eats so fast and stuffs his mouth so full of food that it makes him choke. my brother had to perform a heimlich manoeuvre yesterday, because my dad couldn't breathe. i don't live at home with them, but i really want to help out. my parents both have covid-19 now too, so there's not much i can do, but i thought i'd try to research this, because they struggle with it a lot. i just haven't been able to find any helpful research on this or anything that might help. do any of you struggle with this? have you found anything that helps? obviously they've been trying to correct his behaviour, but he doesn't see the problem and keeps doing it, so it's hard.

When to turn out the lights so to speak?
i've seen three cases of dementia up close. i didn't want to be a burden on anyone or embarrass my wife in a social setting. i'm at the point where i stumble or search for words, forget what i did the day before, etc. i was diagnosed w early onset dementia in may of 3016. tonight my wife had to put my meds in as weekly tray for me so i know it's i'm. not long being here. we are set up for a long we hoped to have together and i don't won't it spent on my care. reddit, when did you wish your "patient" was too for gone to be a partner or parent?

AlzHelp Survey
hey all,alzhelp is a wearable memory support system that helps senior citizens with alzheimer’s to navigate their daily social lives and prevent embarrassment about their cognitive decline. it uses facial recognition technology to help alzheimer's patients remember the names and relationships of those closest to them. it consists of a clip-on device (with a camera) that can be attached to a pair of glasses.would you mind helping us make alzhelp a reality by taking our market research survey?[thanks!

Does it sound like dementia?
my dad, 69, lives with me in my house. he sleeps a lot, i would say around 15 hours. when he wakes up he looks like he was hit by a freight train(not trying to be funny, just describing)he has been walking to the wrong cars lately in the grocery store parking lot(granted they were suvs of the same color) he also repeats things to the point of insanity, and worries about unconsequential stuff. he is still active though and walks about a mile a day to the grocery store and back. he gets paranoid when he cannot find his cat in the house, and frantically looks everywhere for her. should i be concerned? how do i get someone like him to see a doctor if he refuses?

Board games - Monopoly? Or something else?
a few months ago grandma (mixed dementia) was still doing crosswords, so for christmas we bought her scrabble thinking that it will help practice her mental skills but today we tried playing and it was much too difficult for her. she couldn't grasp the rules for placing words or come up with any words. so we're looking for something simpler.i'm thinking of getting monopoly- she used to work in real estate development so the theme of the game is something she knows. however i'm scared that she'll get frustrated again. i haven't played monopoly in like 20 years so i don't remember the exact inns and outs of it and its hard for me to judge the difficulty level in regards to a dementia patient.do you think that monopoly is a good thing to try? or do you have any other board game recommendations that we could all play as a group?

MIT Dementia/MCI Research
three years ago many of you participated in a survey on living with alzheimer’s and dementia patients. we have considered your thoughts and ideas and today we are excited to announce the first experiment using our **digital memory book system called rhizome**. rhizome was developed by mit and ntt data over the past two years. our system enables monitoring and rehabilitating of personal memories for patients with memory-related problems. rhizome is a new kind of photo album that utilizes artificial intelligence to quantify long-term memory decline in patients with memory problems. by joining the experiment as a participant, your family and friends will have free access to the technology and will be able to participate in collecting and organizing the memories of their loved ones. to sign-up please fill out the online form in the link below. our team will contact you for the next steps.who is eligible to participate?families with patients that are in early stages of dementia, alzheimer’s, or mild cognitive decline. your loved one should have the ability to use a simple application (with your assistance if needed) that involves reading short questions (e.g. who is the person in the photo?, did you meet john here? etc) 

Door stopper / home security
my mom has always been very nervous about home security - the kind of person who locks everything and does a couple rounds before going to bed. she lives alone and dementia has made her anxiety about home safety worse.she had a door stopper on her front door, but i removed it because i thought it would be a safety risk in case i or someone else needed to get in her house. is this really the case though? couldn't the police/emergency responders get in through her windows?it's been a couple times that she tells me she's looking for it and starts crying because she lived through a couple break-ins in her home country as a child. i would love to give the door stopper back to her to make her more comfortable at least until her dementia progresses further but worried if anybody needs access to her home.

Gaining Power of Attorney (WA) and General Advice
my boyfriends mother has undiagnosed dementia. it will likely continue to be undiagnosed unless she is forced into care because she emphatically does not trust/accept western medicine. for reference my boyfriend cannot remember a time she has gone to the doctor. she (66f) retired from state service on oct. 31 and we just recently discovered she has not paid some of her bills. we have sorted that out, but it is clear to us, and to her, that she needs help sorting finances. does anyone have any insight on gaining durable poa? she is incredibly mistrustful of other people and flat out refuses to work with anyone but us. we are both in our 20s and quite frankly do not have the money (or time) to provide for her and our daughter - so we are very scared about the future. are there any advocacy groups that we can reach out to? i am just so overwhelmed and out of my depth.

I just need to talk
my grandma was always my answer when asked “who is the strongest woman in your life”. she raised 13 biological children and 1 adopted, she took care of my grandfather when he got sick (diabetes which required both of his legs to be amputated), she chopped her own wood and shovelled her own steps in the winter up until she turned 85 (one time my dad even found her shoveling snow off her roof, he was on his way to do it lol). now she has dementia. it’s so hard for me to grasp this. i try to visit her with my kids once a week but she doesn’t remember me (weirdly enough she always knows who my 4 year old son is. when i walk in she asks me who i am but as soon as she sees my son she has the brightest smile and excitedly yells his name.) i  visited her recently and when i walked in she remembered me and we had a nice long conversation and she gave me this picture of me and my brother when we were kids that was sitting on her nightstand. when i left she called out to my aunt saying someone stole her picture, she had to remind her that she gave it to me. my aunt has a custody of her granddaughter and she looks similar to how i did when i was her age (around 7 or 8) and my grandma calls her by my name. my aunts granddaughter doesn’t correct her or hesitate to answer when that happens and i’m so grateful for that but also a little weirded out. she completely forgot about me as an adult but not as a child? i don’t understand this disease and i wish it wasn’t taking my grandma.

How to get help for a parent that doesn’t think there’s anything wrong?
my mom is 80. she has always hidden things and forgotten where she put them later but now she thinks things are disappearing and is saying that family members have stolen them. if they turn up she claims that they snuck in the house and moved them to mess with her head.sometimes she thinks it’s my brother, sometimes his girlfriend and sometimes his ex wife. tonight she asked if it was me. she even will whisper to me or write me notes just in case they’ve bugged the house and are listening in.i don’t know what to do to help her. she gets real resentful if anyone suggests that she has problems. she says it’s a ploy to have her put in a home. i’ve been trying to humor her but i don’t know if that’s the right thing to do. friends have told me that i should take her to the doctor, but how can i get the doctor to assess her if she doesn’t believe there’s anything wrong with her? i am just so sad and have no idea what to do to help her.

What is the next stage of dementia that is going to take me off guard?
my dad, who has had dementia over the last ten years, came over for the holidays. to help pass the time and to keep him occupied, my wife and i got a kid friendly jigsaw puzzle that he could play with our five year old. being that he lived abroad, i haven't had much time to see how the disease has ravaged his mind. i was completely unprepared to see dad struggle with the basics of solving the puzzle. i don't think he had any recognition of edge pieces should fit with edge pieces. he also had no idea you could rotate pieces around to see if they fit. in any case, it was hard seeing my five year old solving the puzzle in minutes where my dad was completely unable to put more than a few pieces together. he's seventy five and i am resigned to the fact that my dad has long gone and things will only get worse each year..what should i brace myself for the final years of his disease?

Phases of suspicion
my dad has dementia and i find that his suspicions that he occasionally gets about the bank taking his money come and go. it’s as if he has phases where he’s constantly thinking and talking about it and wanting to take action and go get his money back.... then after a few weeks he seems to forget about it or at least never mention it for a while...but after another while it comes up again... is this a common thing with dementia? to get phases of paranoia/suspicion?

I want to make a scrapbook for my grandmother, but I need ideas.
my grandmother has never been officially diagnosed with dementia, but it’s pretty obvious with all the memory problems she has. recently, my father (her son) went to her house, and she forgot he was married to my mother, his wife of 35 years. she thought my sister and i were my mother’s children, and my dad was her friend. this incident gave me the idea to make a scrapbook for her as a christmas gift, containing pictures of all her living relatives and text explaining how they were all related to each other and to her, as well as a little information about each person (occupation, hobbies, age, etc.). i also want to include a list of her hobbies, so she doesn’t get bored when she forgets what she likes to do with her free time. i’m thinking to also include some of her favorite bible verses, since she is a very religious person.i want to know what else i should add to the scrapbook. she lives alone with her cat (she 100% refuses to go to a nursing home), and her three children visit about once or twice a week ... i don’t know if that’s important, but take it into consideration if it is. should i add information about dead family members? is there anything i should know not to include in the scrapbook? any suggestions (including other subreddits where i could post this question) are very much appreciated!

How to deal with impossible delusional requests?
my mom has suddenly become convinced that her grandfather is dying and she needs to fly across the country to see him one last time. the thing is, he's been dead for over 50 years. usually i just go along with her delusions, but this one requires impossible action. i tried telling her that he was already gone, and reminding her that he asked her to come visit just before he died, and she did. for a second there was a flicker of recognition (she's been strangely obsessed with that story for the past year or so, telling it over and over) but then she doubled back down. i even tried pointing out that he would have to be about 120 years old by now. she laughed, obviously recognizing the ridiculousness of thr idea, but then went back to insisting she has to go see him.i hugged her and told her i loved her, but i don't know  how to do that since i don't know where he is. i don't know what else to tell her. ideas?

What to say when someone is first diagnosed?
my dad is very likely going to be diagnosed with dementia / alzheimers this week. i am dreading the phone call. what would you recommend saying to him in that first conversation if he is diagnosed? i am feeling at a loss for words and want to make sure i say the right things (while understanding there is no one right thing to say) 

Advice needed
auntie was diagnosed with dementia 4 years ago. and we have been trying to find solutions not to cure it but to slow down the process. they have spent over $15k on a health program to help her but it requires a lot from someone who is starting to forget to flush after herself, putting kitchen stuff in random drawers, forgetting she is cooking and fires are happening, she has lost the keys to her car, repeats herself and asks the same question 10x in a span of 30 mins, and she is clearly in capable to follow the protocols of this health program which consists of taking over 20 supplements and exercise, have absolutely no sugar and to eat healthy. her partner is absolutely no help and we are at this point of what do we do? just allow her to stay in a home where her partner who is also delusional in thinking she will snap out of it. he still lets her drive by herself to the store and he allows her to drive themselves to doctors appointments, both are in their 80’s. we just found out the woman that was hired to help them cook, clean and do laundry, they fired. she (my auntie ) thought she (the hired worker) was violating her space. i’m at my wits end and don’t know what to do to help. should i just let things be and not get so involved? their kids don’t seem to care but as a niece i do care.

Hand Exercises For Dementia Patient
i am trying to help my friend stay as strong as he can. he has dementia and it’s starting to affect his motor abilities. he’s struggling with balance a lot but also picking things up such as grabbing food and bringing it to his mouth. can anyone recommend any exercises that they have had success with for this kind of thing? thank you.

Dementia Fashion
our latest "movie extras!" clip: dementia fashion is something extra unique! veronica and i applaud the creativity and make sense of it all, i think...?see more clips on our [wine, women, and dementia promotional videos page](&amp;#x200b;*processing video 6fm5oidbl3591...*

How to get dad to shut up about my mom taking their money
my parents are separated, though not legally.   dad is obsessed with this idea that my mom keeps more of their money than her fair share.  he's actually believed this even before dementia as my dad has always been incompetent with money so my mom had to always take care of the finances.  so he never understood where all their money went.  mom still takes care of their money as otherwise i would have to do it and i don't want to add yet another task to my plate in terms of my dad.dad keeps texting and telling me over and over again about his plan to find out what money my mom is stealing and how to get the money back from her.the reality is actually that my dad is the one who will spend overwhelmingly more than my mom due both to his more expensive lifestyle and his future dementia costs.  he's actually going to be the one that bankrupt my parents.  so he takes more than his fair share, not her.but he can't understand this and continues to bug me every single day about their money.  what can i do to shut him up?

Advice?
idk what to do with my grandma she won’t stop for hours. she doesn’t speak any english how would a nursing home even take her? all she does once my mom and i are home is just argue with us and call us liars and how god is going to punish us. like? for what? doing the right thing and taking care of you?

What are you supposed to do with someone who has early stages of frontotemporal dementia?
so, my mother's family has frontotemporal dementia.  my mom's seems to have kicked in a decade before i thought it would. she's still working, but is really not the same person.  i cannot talk to her without feeling picked on. she's had this personality change for about five years, so i'm fairly certain it's permanent. i went through a long grief process about it, and i've mostly accepted where she is. previously, she was an incredibly sweet woman. now, she's just consistently mean.  like  lot of people with that kind of dementia, i fully expect her to be reasonably functional, just mean as dirt.  what's my long term plan, here?she has some assets, can still work, take herself to the doctor, etc. she's just awful to everyone.

How to tell mom big news
my moms stage...oh i don’t know. her short term memory is gone and some of her long. can’t be alone. can’t sleep alone. convinced aliens ans ghosts are moving and stealing her stuff. she’s kind of mean. it’s a lot. well i’m pregnant. single - she hasn’t met my boyfriend though she knows of him and i think remembers. how do i tell her this news? she’s so depressed and anxious and worried already. i know she wants a child for me, i’m almost 40. but i also think this will make her feel like more of an inconvenience and more alone and depressed.

Female personal hygiene tips?
i'm a caregiver to an 88 year old woman who is either at or quickly approaching the end stages. she wants to be in bed most of the time now. most of my caregiving experience is with older men. does anyone have any tips or suggestions for keeping bm away from a female's private area? a month ago she was still using the toilet, but now she is completely incontinent.

FTD runs in my family and it terrifies me
my dad was diagnosed with ftd when he was 55 or 56 and passed away at 58. his dad had it too in his 50’s. they have a mapt mutation that i have a 50% chance of inheriting. i’m about to turn 24. i’ve went through waves since learning about my genetic risk of copious research into everything i can find about this until i can think of something to get it off my mind, to spiraling again. whenever i see someone healthy in their 50’s or later, a part of me feels jealous.i don’t want to get tested yet, but i will some day. now i’m terrified that although for mapt mutations there is a strong correlation between individual age of onset with mean family age of onset, that i could end up getting this even earlier — in my 30’s or 40’s. who knows. it makes me worried that it’ll make it harder to find a partner and get married and have children, although there are ways to have children out there without risking giving the baby the gene. i’m constantly reading about the current research on this all, desperately hoping a breakthrough will be had and there will be some treatment for me before it’s too late if i have this.i think about being a burden to my future partner and kids. would i be better off dead than a massive financial and emotional burden? i just wish there was a treatment for this or something. i’m terrified.

Any suggestion on GPS trackers that can also detect removal?
mother-in-law is an early sufferer - she has wandered off several times over the past 2 months. we would like to get a gps-enabled bracelet tracker that also detects removal (she is prone to take off such things, so we would like to get alerted if that occurs). not sure if anything like that exists? (also, we would like to avoid device like watch so that it does not grab her attention)... thanks in advance...

Driving evaluations?
has anyone had their loved one’s driving evaluated by an ot as prescribed by their neurologist? also has anyone had their loved one sign a “driving contract” stating when the caregivers notice problems with driving, the person with dementia will give up their right to drive? how did you approach the contract and how did the interaction go?

Thankyou to the best dementia community on the planet 💔🙏🏼
i have sung the wonderfulness of this sub reddit to anyone who’d listen. i don’t know how i would have coped til now without you all. thank you dear fellow dementia supporters / carers for being the most compassionate non judgemental people.my mother passed today at 5am. 85 vascular dementia. she stopped eating and developed a serious bedsore. i’ve had a lifelong complicated relationship with her due to her narcissism and physical abuse when i was young. but that woman gave birth to me she’s still my mum / momwe were not close but i looked after her and made sure she had the best care possible.  i fought off several scammers and managed her complicated estate all the while suffering her vitriol and yet  i feel so damn guilty so damn guilty for not visiting her in final days just one more time. i visited her last in december to say my goodbye as she was in palliative care. i held her hand i kissed her told her i loved her. it was a good visit she was cold but not awful.how do you deal with the guilt of end of life by the bed absence?

[deleted by user]
my mom has been in hospice for almost a year now; 10 and a half months or so. i was sort of relieved when i was told she qualified for hospice and was receiving care at the nursing home she lives in. it felt like closure and the ability to finally heal we’re getting near. well jokes on my because she’s still alive almost a year later. i’m so sick and tired of seeing her like this, i’m sick and tired of having my sick poor mother constantly hanging over my head. i want this to be over. has anyone else dealt with long hospice? i’m running out of patience and my heart is almost too broken to go on. i hate seeing my mom and being reminded of just how much she has suffered over the past 20+ years.

Seeing my nanna for the first time in a while
my nanna and i live quite far away from each other, and i’m going to go see her with my dad this weekend for the first time since her dementia developed. quite frankly im terrified, but i don’t want to not go. im very afraid that she doesn’t know who i am, does anybody please have any tips on how to deal with this and process it? thank you in advance

how do you deal with all the hurt?
i'm 23, my mom has dementia and ms. she's been in a nursing home since my senior year of hs, my dad divorced her when i was a freshman in hs too so ive been handling this all alone as he has nothing to do with her. she's had it for about the past 15 years so i've had to deal with this my whole life and i still don't really know how to. i randomly find myself being reminded of her pretty much every day and get teary eyed or just break out full on sobbing. like today i was on the bike at the gym and randomly started to try and think of something to do for her for easter to make it special and i just started crying right there. i'm crying now as i write this. sorry if this is the wrong place and i'm being rambly and selfish. i feel like i let this bother me too much and normal people don't get this upset about things. anyways, can anyone else relate or have any tips to get through? thanksedit: thank you to everyone for your support and willingness to share. i really do appreciate it and wish you all the best of luck with your personal losses as well. it's nice to hear that other people can completely relate

Disturbing Behavior
found out last week that my dad touched someone and made some very vulgar comments to them. he thought the person was my mom at one point, but then later i'm not sure if he thought it was my mom or not. anyway, i don't live there and mainly go once a day for meds, but i've called the doc to change up that med so that i don't have to be there (when he went in the hospital they put him on insulin for his diabetes, his doc had been trying to get him on it for years because he has never taken care of his diabetes, and since he was already on it, we just left him on it, but since i'm the one that gives him his shot most days, i asked about just adding back a diabetes pill we had stopped. i know his diabetes won't be controlled good, but unless someone is willing to step in and agree to be there for the shot everyday, that's the option i have) he has called me mom several times and i didn't like it before this happened and this only makes it worse. so, i won't be alone with him. anyway i called his doctor and he suggested he go see a geriatric psychiatrist, but i know that won't happen. he will only deny that it happened and truthfully, whenever anyone has called him out on anything for years (10+) he just denies it and says either we are lying or he doesn't remember. i was wondering if we could talk to the psychiatrist without him seeing him, but i realize that probably isn't possible since no-one has poa. any ideas? i thought about trying cbd oil, does anyone know if this helps? but he's on lots of medicines already, so i don't know if that would even work.

Sundowning? My 90 year old FIL has started attacking my 88 year old MIL in her sleep.
as the title states, my father in law has started getting violent toward my mother in law at night. she wakes up in pain and fear because of the grip he has on her, and he is kicking her. she has started sleeping in a different room, on a different floor of the house. their kids are not concerned enough to step in. they only listen and console. i’m fearful that he will kill her one night, or even break her bones. he’s twice her size. after much coaxing, my mil agreed to call his neurologist and ask for an appointment sooner than their scheduled appointment in october. this is all new to me. what can i expect? how can i help?

I want to grief this situation, but can't
after five years of going downhill, a temporary move (because my mom wanted to renovate the house) and a fall that caused a punctured lung "we" decided to put my dad in a dementia home. saying we, because my mom asked if i agreed with her decision and i said yes because she is his primary caretaker and i live two hours away.after the yes, the move happened way faster then we anticipated. i barely got used to the fact it was going to happen, i wasn't even home and he got picked up for the move.my dad gave me joy in life, hope, trust, confidence. which slowly slipped away, but is still sometimes there. in the home he had good days in the beginning, now he wants to come home everytime we visit, which only makes visits sad. my mom is in full restyle mode and on top of that is exhausting to be around leaving no room for my emotions. and so my childhood (also because of the renovation) is no longer my safe and good place in this world. i feel like i lost everything that made me who i am. i am very grateful for my so, my lovely job and the okayish house we made a home, that is now all i have left.i sometimes feel sad, i am very tired of everything that happened suddenly so fast lately and it affects my daily life, but very subtle in the background.i want to cry, scream, but all there is is just this faint feeling of anxiousness and sad.is there a way to really feel what this very slowly and yet suddenly very fast big loss does to me? instead of just seeping into my day to day life, making it hard to enjoy it to the fullest.

Help
how do any of you manage your life?my husband has dementia and i was taking care of my mother too, who has dementia for 8 years. i'm so tired all the time, i just don't have energy for work, socializing, and even taking care of myself.how do you guys do it? what is acceptable?this disease is so hard.

My 50 yr old mom just got diagnosed with Early signs of dementia.
i’m 19f and for a few years not i kind of had a gut feeling that she was having some trouble with her memory. but just the other day at a doctor appointment she was told she has early signs of dementia. she’s only 50? how can that happen so young. i’m so scared and i don’t know how i can comfort her and help her.  my dad and my 18yr old brother too and are there for her. this is all so new and scary. what did we do?

A bit of a rant
as an only child of my widowed mother who has mild to moderate alzheimers i am the sole family member  available to be at her beck and call . my relationship with my mum is not a mother son one but me as an adult helping care for a manipulative self centred woman who if i dont jump to her demands she huffs and i feel awful then. i've 5 young kids and a full time job and then she brings looking something or tells me to call.  i just want to walk away and forget my responsibility for her but then the guilt would set in .  does anyone else fell like this or am i being too self centred ?

Marriage strain on caregivers.
trying to constantly help my dad and mom with doctors visits and renovating the downstairs bedroom/bath, taking them anywhere they need to go is really screwing up my marriage and taking care of my own family.  think it's time to step back and not be so available to them.  how do you all deal with this situation?

A New Caregiver
hey -i just got a job as a caregiver in a care home for seniors with memory loss, alzheimers, and dementia. i have been watching many training videos, but i don't have much on hand experience. what i wanted to know was what i should expect on a more day to day basis, what challenges to expect and how i can more easily deal with them effectively. are there specific things i should work on? i know what the videos tell me but that doesn't replace irl experience.any suggestions are welcome!

How to get through FIL's recent diagnosis when SIL is not a nice person :/
essentially what the title says. i'm sure many of you can related. my sil is one of the most difficult people i have ever met, i am married to her brother. she's always been very angry, jealous, stubborn, makes up fights in her head etc.. fil in was diagnosed about 5 months ago, and she will not answer her brothers calls or texts to try and figure out what the next step is and how they can support their mom and dad. she has young kids that we basically aren't allowed to see (we're all youngish)... so this isn't new behaviour but i naively thought she would come around after we got this news.  she's always been in competition with him, and thinks hes favoured etc. he's a very calm and passive person and just ignores it. hurts to watch my husband go through this. have ya'll been through this? how do you deal with difficult people at times like these? do you ever just want to scream at the top of your lungs, like cant we seriously just all get along right now?...

How quickly can the end come?
so my dad is in the hospital (lewy body dementia, diagnosed 2016). a week ago he was kind of off in his own world mentally but still physically healthy and eating, walking, recognizing people, able to give simple (yes/no) answers to simple questions, etc. then, on thursday, the nurse at his facility noticed that he was acting very lethargic and out of it. he'd also been refusing meds, and as of thursday, seems to be unable to swallow anything. he's also no longer speaking, standing, talking aside from occasionally yelling, "no!", and doesn't really seem to be aware of what's going on around him. his bloodwork and urinalyses are all fine, and there is no sign of stroke.is it possible for them to go from physically ok to actively dying in less than a week? what have your experiences been? i'm honestly sad but relieved at the prospect - i know my dad wouldn't want to live like he has been living for the past couple of years, so if this is it, it's past time. still, i don't want to just give up on him if this isn't "the end" but is just some bizarre blip.

Does anyone have experience with "hot head?"
my father has alzheimer's, and his #1 struggle right now isn't so much the dementia itself, but the fact that his head feels too hot basically 100% of the time, and doing any activity makes it even hotter. it's definitely a perceptual thing (he does not have a fever, it's not hot to the touch) and short of blowing a fan on his head, we have struggled to find any treatmetn for it. so far, the doctors we have talked with haven't been much help. does anyone has any experience with this?

How to keep Gma's hands busy if she won't stop picking at her skin..?
hello everyone! my nana(73) (moms mom) has alzheimers and she has a lot of cognitive issues when it comes to trying to find something to say. like she can't... connect what she wants to say to her speaking. and so i feel this leaves her feeling "jumbly." maybe... hard to focus, hard to keep attention. but the one thing that she can "focus" on is her picking her moles and skin. only until a little while ago would she be picking at her skin so severely that her arms and legs would bleed really bad! but now it's scabbed over...it sucks to watch her have to do this rather than like... a fidget toy or something. i bought her some a few years ago but obviously hasn't stuck.&amp;#x200b;do you guys have any advice or recommendations on how to keep someone with dementia alzheimer's hands busy?thanks everyone! and stay safe out there.

Visiting
i want to visit my mom, i miss her a lot. i moved to make this easier, but i still barely visit. i hate it. i hate that the woman i find at the assisted living facility is a different woman than the one who raised me. i hate getting frustrated after repeating details and stories. i miss my mom so much and i can't seem to reconcile that she is still in there. i feel like a terrible daughter. what can i do? please tell me there is a way to find comfort.

Does anyone has any experience with cannabis for dementia patients?
hey all, my grandma suffers from dementia. she lives one house over with a 24/7 career, and we see her quite often.   lately she has been having issues with anger and paranoia. she’s convinced that her caregiver is stealing her clothes (or rather comically, is shrinking or enlarging her shoes). the house is wired with cameras- the caregiver did not steal anything.   every time (which lately has been everyday) she thinks something is missing, she goes on this huge tantrum trying to fire the caregiver (who has the patience of a saint! she has been with her for almost a year). we are against giving her any sort of strong drugs, she is generally quite happy and is living a happy life as far she understands. we asked her doctor about cannabis as a possible solution- the doctor said that it works some, and doesn’t for others and in general not a lot of research has been done in the field, but he doesn’t mind prescribing it (which was surprising, we don’t live in the most cannabis friendly country in the world).   i’m just wondering if anyone here has had any experience with it?

Should i tell my grandma that she has alzheimers/dementia?
my dad has been very secretive about telling her she has dementia, and instead my dad comes to her house everyday, playing the piano for her and "letting the concert to begin". its hard to tell her that she had dementia since we're afraid that something bad will happen to her, since back then when my dad didnt come to her house she went outside from 5pm to 11pm. it's giving us anxiety that she might get lost again, so after that we decided to keep watch of her at all times. it's hard but we're managing quite a bit.but still, if she has all of these symptoms of dementia, and she contiues to deny it until we say it to her, will it get worse? will her memory begin to fade? im afraid, but i think its much more better to say it to her in my opinion, but yeah.please tell me what to do, i can't really talk to this about my dad since i know he'll just get mad at me saying that thats much more worse to tell it to her but will it?

Sudden dementia
82 year old mom. the last month has brought about a major cognitive breakdown. can't figure out remote control, how to turn on computers, memory loss, etc.before this she was a bit forgetful, but this is a total change.tests for uti, blood, drug interactions all negative.mri for stroke, tumor, clot all negative.dr says it is unusual for dementia to hit so quick.has anyone else had a relative with such a sudden downturn?

Exporting dementia
i've been doing a lot of reading and ran across the concept of international elder care, particularly for dementia care. specifically in chiang mai, thailand. anyone have experience with the concept in thailand or elsewhere? i'm simultaneously horrified and interested, as is my partner. 

Any advice for a new caregiver?
hello, everybodyi’m (26m) about to move in with my grandma who has dementia. her daughter (my aunt) is her current care giver and takes care of all of her finances and such and my grandma is still capable of bathing and feeding herself, so i’ll mostly just be there to cook, clean, take care of her dogs, keep her active, etc. so, do you guys have any advice? anything you wish you had known before becoming a caregiver? suggestions for fun activities? best ways to slow their dementia? anything would help and any help is much appreciated as this is going to be very new for me.

Next Steps Following Disgnosis?
hello, my (22f) mother (56f) most likely has parkinson’s with parkinsonian dementia as suggested by the neurologist. (for the last year myself and her mother (my grandma) have been taking her to appointments trying to get a diagnosis, but it is taking so long for them to give an official one-hopefully soon we will have the official diagnosis).  she works at my grandparents’ company as an office manager, and they keep an eye on her/help so she has something to do with her time in the day. i don’t know at all what to do next when we do have the diagnosis. do i look into disability for her? she is at a moderate dementia level, no longer driving and doesn’t know the year or day, and has short term memory loss. i have no idea where to begin, whether we should just keep her on payroll working at my grandparents’ company, or move to disability instead. i don’t know how much that will give her. i’m worried for the future because she will need a caregiver in the next 5-10 years, and i am in grad school. i won’t have a job til i’m 29! i have my grandparents and they are a huge help, but they are in their late 70s, and i’m just scared. what is the process for getting money to help cover costs and is it worth it now?

Advice - grandma literally talks non stop
hey everyone. grandma (83) has been diagnosed with dementia/alzheimer’s. on top of a lot of the things we all have to deal with (forgetfulness, not eating as much, ect.) my grandma talks alot. there is no such thing as a quick convo. if i ask if she wants a coffee as i’m walking out the door she will talk my ear off. now i’ve gotten good at telling her calmly that i can’t sit here for a half hour and chat but she just never stops. i know part of this is her personality but the other part is she repeats herself constantly and has started to speak what i call jibberish; she’s speaking but nothing makes sense and then she gets frustrated that no one understands her which will trigger her.anyone else dealing with this and if so how do you maintain your sanity when you hear the same story 10 times a day?

Took it for granted
i miss seeing my mom's handwriting. she was a note sender. there was always a card in the mail from her. i took them for granted. and of all the things dementia has robbed her of, her lost ability to write those notes hits me sneaky hard. can anyone relate?

Engaging activity ideas for demented loved one?
hi everyone,my grandma with dementia had a fairly sour marriage to say the least for most of her life, so she often gets stressed or worried about things from her past. doing an engaging activity is key to starting her day off right, keeping her brain active on positive things, and keeping worrying at bay for some time. however, finding activities she would enjoy  and engage in has been a struggle. she can't understand what she reads anymore, she has a hard time understanding crafts you put in front of her, and she doesn't follow along well with tv. i've tried a plethora of things that could trigger happy memories from her past, but she wasn't a big hobbyist so i'm running out of ideas. for some examples of what we've tried and where she's at: i've had her bake a pie with me and let her mix things, knead dough, and roll out one of the pie crusts. she didn't exactly enjoy being put to work but it did take her mind off things and the instructions were basic enough that she could follow along well. painting a simple sunflower was mentally challenging, and she needed me to point for each place to start and stop her brush. caused a bit of frustration at first but she kind of enjoyed it halfway through. she loooves loves loves listening to elvis, i can put him on for a good hour before she gets bored and she goes to town with foot tapping in her recliner. i was hoping some of you could share activities that you find to be engaging with your loved ones? we'd be more than happy to try just about anything.thank you for taking the time to read this

How would answer the question, “Will I get better?”
my fil has had symptoms of dementia for 4 or 5 years but was diagnosed in february. he has been increasingly confused, sometimes not knowing where he is or not recognizing his children. sometimes he gets depressed about his dementia and will ask my husband if he will get better. we learned about “therapeutic lying” from the geriatric doctor but haven’t been able to come up with a good answer to this question. he usually says that it won’t get better but we can do things to try to preserve the memory he has. sometimes he is ok with this answer and sometimes it makes him cry. how would you all answer this? my husband doesn’t like lying to him but the truth will just hurt him over and over again.

Self-serve breakfast ideas?
woke up this morning to ma sitting at the dining table, alone, and she said "i'm hungry". even a year ago, she could make herself a bowl of cereal or a sandwich. she can still help herself to items like donuts in the fridge, but not much more. as she's waking up at earlier *and stranger* times, i'm looking to have food ready for her to grab and eat, or possibly to grab and microwave. (i ~~think~~ hope she can use the microwave.) any ideas for something she might enjoy, that she can fix herself, requires only a spoon to eat, and isn't green? i'm going to try some macaroni/egg/potato salad in a cup, but i think she'd prefer something more "breakfasty" and warm. toaster waffles (egg-o's) are too complicated. there's the freezer, the box, maybe a bag, the toaster, a plate, a knife, butter, syrup... i'm stuck with really strict parameters: a portion in a bowl or a cup; a spoon or fork; a maybe a minute in the nuker.thoughts?

State of Massachusetts POA Compensation Rate
hi folksi have been an active poa since august of this year. my attorney recommended that i keep a log as an active power of attorney.  does anyone have experience with this?  what is the average compensation rate and are there templates available?

The excuses are mounting.
i had to take the day off today and write to my professors that i couldn’t make it in today due to specific circumstances and asked for an excused absence.  i feel that my reputation has somewhat gone to crap.  how do you cope?  i’m having a bit of trouble coping with the constant excuses.  this semester was particularly difficult.  for legal reasons, i feel uncomfortable discussing the details but it was ridiculous.  any students here that also take care of someone with dementia?  what has been the responses of your professors?  some background info.  i help take care of my future father in law with my fiancé and soon a nurse.  it’s been truly a labyrinth of hell.  

I feel guilt
i feel extreme guilt lately about having to put my dad in a home. but my parents apartment complex wants him out or else my mom gets kicked out. he has had some behavior issues including putting furniture on the apartment complex lawn and punching a college kids windshield while the kid was in the car and breaking it. yet i feel guilt. like it’s happening so soon. i wish i could do more. i wish there was a cure for the lewy body. my dad wasn’t even the greatest parent but i still love him. can anyone relate? is there anything more i can do? thank you i’m feeling really depressed about this

I'm in my early 20s and believe I have dementia
i noticed my cogintive and short term memory has started to decline as of late. i have constant blank mind for 3 years straight with no signs of improvement. i woke up one day and felt a snap , my symtoms includeno memoryno mental images no imgainationno emotions (empathy, love, happiness, euphoria)can someone please tell me what's going on? i went to a nerological doctor and nothing was found on a cte scan

Snapchat filters?
[&amp;#x200b;think playing with filters like this would be a fun activity for an alzheimers patient? i have no idea if dad still recognizes himself enough to get a kick out of this.  also - what app does this sort of thing, snapchat?

When you remember your favorite artist died
last night was a new level in the alzheimer's game. my mil forgot and then remembered tom petty died. first she came downstairs and slumped on the couch. when we asked what was wrong, she announced she's on a hunger strike. we were a little confused, so asked her to elaborate, and she said she was too sad because tom petty just died. she has literally been grieving this since it happened in 2017. i know now that it was 2017, because we looked it up together. the only thing that cheered her up was knowing that "i'm gonna go meet him up in heaven, just you wait and see!" i don't know what's gonna happen when she remembers what happened to george harrison... also, meeting fans might not be heaven for artists, but who am i to judge?

I'm not sure if my dad has dementia
dear friends, recently - over the past two years or so - my mom and i started noticing some changes in my father's behavior. he sometimes forgets recent things - not obvious things like names or addresses, but more like details in a recent conversation, what he had for breakfast, who he was on phone with, etc. he also has a tendency to repeat things in the same conversation. mom and i were always worried that he would develop dementia (because his father and one older brother had it), so we got him to see a doctor as soon as these symptoms started showing. however, the doctor thinks his mri report was fine, and he made him take some informal memory and math tests which he passed easily. what's more, my father has always been a pretty forgetful (and repetitive) person, so we're not sure if this spike in forgetfulness is indicative of dementia, or just a quarantine side-effect.one thing i also notice is, his forgetfulness is kind of context-specific - like he would only forget details related to certain things, and only when he's dealing with certain people (e.g. he tends to forget more when he's communicating with my mom, compared to anyone else). i don't know what to make of it, but i've heard the first symptoms of dementia are only apparent to the primary caregiver (my mom in this case, i live abroad).i guess my primary question is, assuming the worst (early dementia) - what can we do to make his situation better (or at least, prevent it from getting worse)? i've browsed some of the material posted on the resources section of this subreddit, but they largely seem to cater to later stages in dementia, while our confusion is about the diagnosis itself.thanks in advance for any and all help! feel free to direct me to other resources/forums/experts to e-mail.

Could my father be suffering from early dementia?
in the past i've noticed every now and then, that my father is a little forgetful here and there. nothing that was ever worrying (though his mother had dementia that degraded very rapidly).today i was talking to my father about the bike that he and i had bought secondhand a month ago from a bike store. he remembered us together being there to buy the bike. he did not remember the bikes brakes being oiled that i had asked them to do. while it was being oiled my dad and i were there looking and he asked a handful of questions about it being done.today, roughly a month later, he could not remember it happening. it was after i pried for a while and gave more details about the moment that he slowly started to remember.he is currently 65, his mother developed dementia at around 75 i believe. any worries i should have?i intended for this message to be shorter and more to the point, sorry.

Peed bed
anyone have any tips on how to get the smell out of the mattress? grandmother peed bed and didnt know until i checked 30 minutes later. saw wet spot went close and felt wetness kn the carpet. anyone have tips on how to get pee smell from the mattress?

mom not making any sense anymore
my mom has been rapidly declining over the past few months and it’s getting to the point  where i get frustrated because i don’t know what she’s saying. i really try to understand what she means but it just doesn’t make any sense. i’m trying my best not to get discouraged since i know this is a clear indicator of her alzheimer’s getting worse. does anyone have any advice on how to have a conversation and not get frustrated? thanks in advance!

How to get my mom in and out of the car
my mom has advanced stage early onset alzheimer’s. it is getting harder and harder to get her in a car and out of it. she wants to corporate but just doesn’t know how to move her body to fulfill the task. i end up lifting and pushing her on to the chair (she just tries to climb over the car door). than she just stays in the position i placed her, completely slumped. getting her out is just as tricky, yesterday i was trying to get her out of the car for 20 minutes. she wasn’t able to reposition her center of mass above her feet so she fell back to the seat and cried when i tried to help.any away, enough complaining, is there a technique i’m not aware of? what can i do to make getting in and out of the car smoother?

Weight loss
my 5' 6" sister, who is in her 60s, is now under 90 pounds because she isn't hungry and won't eat. she'd made it clear even before she was diagnosed with alzheimer's that she didn't want to be forced to eat, like had been done for our mother, so we aren't. but it is startling and shocking and sad to see her turning into a skeleton, and i can't help but know that her time with us is getting very short. do any of you have experience with this kind of quick (over 50 pounds in less than a year) weight loss with alzheimer's? am i right in expecting that she can't go on much at this weight loss level? she -- the real person -- has been gone for over a year now and i miss her so much. but the loss of what's left of her will be a blow as well.

Advice for my Mother
i need some help/advice. my mother has recently been baker acted twice in florida and is in an assisted living facility with memory care for around 48 hours now. but last night she become aggressive and kept trying to leave. i live in indiana and have an internship for school. it’s a requirement and likely my future job. i’ve missed the first week and cannot miss the second or that’ll be it. she was diagnosed with a brief psychotic disorder but with the nightly wandering this is obviously more.since my mom became aggressive i granted permission (i have durable poa) for a behavioral specialist to see her and for anxiety and aggression drugs to be given to her, but if she keeps being aggressive they have to call 911. i don’t have good funds for a sitter and she’s not old enough for medicare. she also called me a few minutes ago acting like her normal self and just kept saying she needed me and loves me and wanting me to take her home, but this won’t last i’m sure. i have to go back to indiana in the next day or so, but am i wrong for doing this? if i lose my internship it negatively affects my school as well. i feel selfish but this has been coming on for months and i’m her only surviving family.

My world just changed in a terrible way. I'm heartbroken & terrified at the prospect of losing my wife.
this gets dropped on us the other day - her diagnosed with early onset alzheimer's. i will lose my wife of 34 years by this awful disease, and not suddenly, but slowly &amp; cruelly. she will fade away in front of me over time. in 8-10 years i'll retire and i face the real prospect of entering that time of life **alone**. we've so anticipated our time &amp; travels together and now i face the likelihood of spending that time alone. i can't think. i can't sleep. i wake in the middle of the night and hear her breathing, then think about her not there. i'm numb with pain and this hasn't even really started.i don't know what to think or how to approach this situation. she will need *me*. how do i do this? she's reading in the other room as i type this, and my soul is screaming.tl:dr i'm going to lose the love of my life; how do i get through this?

How to help someone "self-realize" that they are forgetting.
after searching around a little i wasn't able to find any suggestions on how to help someone realize (on their own accord) that they are not remembering things..  rather, there is much more focus on how to "deal" with those whose memory is failing (as a caregiver). i understand that patience is key. but for someone who refuses to believe that they aren't able to remember things/details, are there any tactics/tips/strategies to help them realize that they cannot "remember when they have forgotten?" 

MIL Started Calling From Care Facility
my mil has had a very rough couple of months. she lost her husband, moved across the country to be closer to my wife and our family. as you would expect, she is very confused, scared, and agitated at times. we just got her a phone in her room (not sure if that was a good or bad idea), but she was using the facilities phone prior. it's difficult to pick up the phone when she calls because we'll have to tell her again (and again) that her car isn't out front, she's not going home, etc. it's extremely taxing for my wife when they have the same conversation over and over. have others experienced the same, and how did you deal with it? also, is giving her a phone a bad idea?

[deleted by user]
my grandmother has dementia (later stage) and recently moved in with my parents after my grandfather passed away following a short stay in the hospital. my grandmother asks about him constantly (several times every hour) and my parents have continued to tell her that he is in the hospital. i truly respect my parents for their decision not to tell her that he has passed. it is best she doesn’t know he passed as she would not be able to understand in her current state. (we did tell her once, it did not go well and it made things worse for my mom as she is grieving as well). i’m visiting with them soon for a week and i’m starting to realize i will have to answer my grandmother’s questions as well. i’m okay with my parents saying that my grandfather is in the hospital, but i’m very uncomfortable with saying those words myself. he passed away just a few months ago and i’m still grieving. i’ve told my mom how i feel and asked her for advice. she basically said i have to respond the way they have or don’t bother visiting. is there a compromise here?

The lurking gets tiresome
mister demento stands too close, but anywhere at all, and stares at whoever is in the room. my daughter doesn't like it, but the caregiver is kind of freaked out by it. i told her, she's the only life form in the place, so he is attracted to it. she hears that, but still, a man you don't know that well, standing a foot away while you're trying to work in the kitchen, is weird.no one seems to be able to direct him to go sit down, or give him something to do to hold his attention. some of that is because we aren't used to having to tell a grownup how to behave, and some is because he doesn't take direction. his computer quit, he doesn't have or want a tv, so it's just him and his own withering brain. any other lurkers? ideas?

What medication and storage related problems do dementia patients and caregivers face?
we are a team of students working on a project to improve the medication devices used to help mild to moderate stage dementia patients remember to take right medication on time. we would really appreciate your feedback on these questions:&amp;#x200b;1) what device did you use? did you like it? any improvements to the device you would like?2) what problems do you or your patient faces with current device used for storing and reminding your medication?3) is there any problem with the design of the device? what changes would you like it to have?4) is the device doing its job? if not, please try to explain why if you can.&amp;#x200b;note: please do not share any personal information. this post is to understand in general the failures of current medical devices for further improvement.

My grandmother has slowly been losing her memory over the years. Last week she forgot her husband died.
sorry if this post seems frantic, i just want to make sure i do this the right way. her husband (my grandpa) died 14 years ago. last week she woke up not knowing where he was, and every day she has been grieving his death as if it just happened and nobody told her he was sick.how do i approach this for the sake of her health? do i keep telling her it was 14 years ago? do i let her grieve? any advice would be helpful.

When their reality meets our reality
how do you guys deal with situations where things have to get done?&amp;#x200b;i think we all know to let them live their own reality. we don't drag them into the real world but let them live whenever and however they they think they're living. &amp;#x200b;but what do we do when something from our real world makes it necessary to drag them into it. something like a doctor's appointment or even just a haircut? if the event doesn't fit into their reality but it's essential, what do we do?

I am afraid of this disease, even though I am 13 years old.
in my family there are no cases of people with dementia or alzheimer's, but i am afriad of it, and i almost believe that my brain is developing this disease. i have often trouble at finding my phone or a book even a few seconds after leaving it in my bedroom too, and i forgot about my uncle's new car only a month after seeing it for the first time, could these be symptoms of a brain disease?.  i have also recently heard about people who developed dementia during childhood due to rare genetic  problems. how can i defeat this fear? why is it irrational? i also had other fears in the past, and i am always afriad of something.

Grandma is near the end of her suffering
i think my grandma is now near the end... ofcourse i don't know how near but the evolution has been speeding up since december. recently her feet have swollen a lot , which has alarmed my mother and she thinks the caregivers at the home aren't doing enough for her. we've been told she's lacking proteins because she barely eats and that's why her feet have swollen . another recent change is her head has gone from being in a normal erect posture  to having her neck completely bent in the time span of 24h  and being unable to lift it up because it apparently hurt her. my mother also thinks the medication dose is probably too high and that the people at the home might have done that to keep her relaxed since she kept getting up and grabbing people and stuff like that, and she thinks that's why her head has dropped.i personally think my grandmother is just following the normal course of the illness. i don't want to blame the caregivers and doctors. i believe you can only do so much for alzheimer patients, and that we cant save my grandma from her alzheimer's progression. i took care of my great grandmother (my grandmother's mom) who also had alzheimers, during her last two months  when i was 16 years old, and 7 years later i'm seeing the same evolution with my grandma. any opinions or experiences any of you could share ?

Memantine and Quitting It
i'm looking for experiences of how parents/grandparents/etc. reacted after stopping memantine. my mom's on both memantine and donepezil. we just got the latest monthly pharmacy bill for her mail-order prescription and the co-pay for memantine went up 300%. it's insane, and i can't find anything saying that memantine went up that much in 2020. we're currently looking into whether this is a mistake on medicare's part or the pharmacy's. if a $200 monthly co-pay is the new price, we cannot justify her spending that much as it's not the only medication she's on and others are more important imo.her memory care doctor told us that stopping that med will have her declining far faster mentally, but her body is still healthy and she'll just go into, for all intents and purposes, a bedridden vegetative state. when i've brought it up, the memory care and her regular physician both say it is not recommended at all. i know she already hates the disease, so i don't want to make it worse, but i know that this new price is too much for her budget.i don't know if the doctors are feeding me scary stories to keep her on the medication or if it's really that bad. can anyone offer insight on what they experienced?

I'm pretty sure my 63-year-old father has developed early-onset Alzheimer's.
my paternal grandfather passed away a few months ago after a brief but intense period of living with alzheimer's. he never sought treatment, and passed away from a bad fall. since it runs in the family, i'm concerned about my father. he has become increasingly forgetful, agitated, and confused. he has type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure and cholesterol, and a history of dvt, all of which he consistently takes medication for. he has a bmi around 40 and does not exercise or eat healthfully. he has not yet seen a doctor; my mother and i are preparing to speak with him tonight. he is generally resistant to speaking to medical professionals about what he considers to be "mental" issues, and i don't think he thinks it's a problem, just a natural effect of aging.what would be the best way to approach the conversation with him? his symptoms are becoming more alarming each day, and i'm fearful that without early intervention and a major change in lifestyle, his prognosis will not be good. any advice about where to start and how to navigate this moving forward would be sincerely appreciated. thank you.

My dad keeps forgetting where he is when he wakes up
he is 81 years old. he has not been diagnosed with dementia. cognitively he has gone downhill over the last few years, particularly in the last 2 years since he was barely able to sleep for months due to an ear tumor which he needed a few operations for. it all took a lot out of him physically, which accelerated whatever cognitive decline he was already having before this. over the last year or so he has had probably about 20 instances of waking up in his own living room (he’s lived in the house for 35 years) and it taking him a couple of minutes to realize where he is. in the last year he has also seemed to get some mild auditory hallucinations (only a few times) and visual ones (stuff out of the corner of his eye, happens more often than the auditory ones but still not very often). he is on a lot of medications which could be causing that though. i know i ideally need a doctor’s opinion (i’ve asked him to ask his doctors plenty of times and he always forgets as he usually already has a few other things to ask him about). but in people’s general opinions, are these signs of usual aging or signs of dementia/alzheimer’s?

How to protect the dog?
my father in law puts the family dog out on the outdoor rope and then forgets the dog is outside.  it's a small dog and several times now my mother in law has found it outside, almost suffering from heat stroke. it gets very hot here in summer and very cold in winter. we are trying to come up with a way to protect the dog. any ideas? we can't move the location of the dog rope.  i doubt that my mother in law would go for a doggy door; they are not popular here, due to the cold winters.

Are these typical signs right before death for someone with dementia?
my grandma has had dementia for a few years now and is in (what i thought) was the moderate stage. these past couple days, she’s refused to eat anything. she took 2 bites of bacon and spit them out. she’s in the hospital currently with low potassium and they gave her orange juice to help, but she threw up some.she’s extremely confused and giving nonsensical responses to questions. she’s very weak too and can’t walk now. last night she slid off the bed and couldn’t remember how to get back up. she began fidgeting with her hands in her bed and when asked, said she was smoking a cigarette and then was cutting up cantaloupe for me. she is hallucinating and was taking to “nurses” in her room last night and asked them, “when you go to lunch, where do you put your purse?” and just very strange things like that. my aunt asked her this morning if she was tired and she said, “did i put it out with the trash? i did it morning and night.” she’s had 2 seizures today, doesn’t know where she is, had high bp, her cell count indicated infection, she has a uti, and is dehydrated.

How do you get over the guilt of not trying enough to fix them?
theoretically, there could be dozens of possible causes of my mother’s dementia.  the doctor ruled out a few through testing.  there doesn’t seem to be anything specific causing it.  but i see things all the time about “try this, this worked” for various cures, which did seem to work for that person, but doesn’t work for everyone.  i’m constantly wavering between just (finally) accepting my mother’s continuing brain damage as-is, and hoping (yet again) that there’s something i should keep looking for, to fix her.  how do you let go of that drive to find a potentially non-existing cure?  i don’t have the temperament to try to force her to eat coconut oil every day for six months, or whatever else there might be.  but i keep wondering, what if i should have that temperament, shouldn’t i try, shouldn’t i keep pounding the pavement, push her into trying a different test?  i feel like a failure because i can’t solve her dementia.  i know logically, practically speaking, that’s dumb.  but when is enough, enough?  how do you let yourself give up?

Is she back in her childhood?
hey everyone,for a few months my mom talks about her siblings, some she still has contact with and most of them, she did not see or hear from for about 15 years (there was a family fight back in the day)   if she did something wrong she would always blame it on her siblings :d (that are not here or already dead) (from what i heard from her sisters, my aunt, they were all not innocent)  anyways - i just read about dementia and hallucination. is it hallucination?  when she says "my brother was here just yesterday"  is it really hallucinaton or just memory? like... would she think he was physically there or not?  she might have just slip back into her younger ages?

Medicaid for assisted living or memory care experiences?
looking for assisted living facility in nw atlanta/woodstock that accepts medicaid.  anyone have experience with medicaid for assisted living facilities?  how difficult is it to a) get on the medicaid list (she qualifies) and b) find an assisted living facility that takes it?

I'm worried that my grandma can see herself getting worse
my grandma has had mild dementia for a while now. but a month or so ago, she had a fall in the shower and it has been getting much worse, much faster. the thing i'm concerned about is the fact that my grandma can see how much worse she is getting. and she seems very distraught, as she is always crying to various family members about it, and saying she doesn't want to go this way. is there anything at all i can do to make this easier for her? i try to be there for her as much as possible, which she seems to appreciate. but am i missing something? 

