My dad [60 yrs old] has dementia and honestly it doesn't get any better. U have to come to terms with this fact first. Then be patient with him and understand that he has no control over this, so if its this depressing and frustrating for u, imagine what he's going through (even if he doesn't speak of it!). A whole lot of patience and understanding is demanded on your part. You remaining calm and supporting him at such a vulnerable and confusing point of the day for him can and will make all the difference in the world. It's all about commitment at this point. I watch my mom cry often as she copes with this herself. While shes at work during the day, I step in. He loses his keys and wallet 20 times a day and it becomes a treasure hunt for days before we find them again. Really all you can do is keep his brain stimulated to slow the process down. I play "memory" with cards with my dad. Some days are better than others. Certain foods are good for the memory too. I wish I had the answers u were looking for but honestly it only becomes better in time as u learn to deal with it yourself. 
Try engaging in activities that don't require him to remember anything - going for walks through gardens, people watching, storytelling (timeslips.org for more info), listening to music.  Instead of asking if he remembers this or that, ask what he thinks about this or that - try to keep the conversations about what is happening in that moment and in that place.
This is really tough. The thing is, it's totally not his fault and your mom is under a lot of stress but it's really hard to understand that his attention span and memory simply are not ever going to be as reliable as before. It's nothing personal and it's a disease making him act this way, so getting frustrated is just going to cause more stress. The best things to do are often just listening to familiar music and doing stuff that your dad enjoys- being outside, going to mcdonalds etc.

Eventually he will not really be reachable and the people that will need the most support are your mom and yourself. Depending on where you are there should be a support group nearby. These groups are usually a volunteer leader and other people who have a family member in the same or a similar stage of dementia as yours. They can be a lifesaver because people often know what to do about situations that come up whereas you will not have a clue what to do because you haven't experienced it before.

Also the Alzheimer's Association has a 24/7 helpline that keeps a database of support groups and other services in your area as well as social workers who you can talk to about this kind of stuff: 1-800-272-3900

http://www.alz.org/ is their website.
I am coping with my father (65) having dementia. First of all to help him you need to be in a good state for yourself and mental well being. So have some time everyday (even if it has to come in 5 minute intervals) to do something that makes you happy/relaxes you. Then you can start helping him.

I don't know the specifics, but to keep the stress down, try to keep the questions to yes or no answers. "Did you have a good day?" "Are you up for some dinner/a snack?" "Would you like to watch some tv with me?" These questions make them feel involved and a bit more normal because they're able to answer them normally. 

For your mom it obviously will be the hardest. Give her lots of love and keep in your mind she is watching her husband slowly disappear. If you remember things they used to do together that doesn't tax the mind, suggest to her to do them again. Going to a favourite restaurant, walking together, banging (I don't mean it rudely, I'm sure it would make the ol' guy happy, and if my dad was still with my mom, i'd suggest it for him too).  

There are good diets to help them keep their bodies in good shape, therefore helping the mind as well. I don't know your ideas on the topic, but smoke a joint here or there wouldn't hurt a stitch. There's lots of info backing it up. Exercise too, releases the feel good endorphins. Even a walk once a day for 45 mins can help drastically and keep some routine in his schedule.

If your dad is into learning new things, this will help his mind make new connections. My dad is learning guitar after not playing an instrument, I think since grade school.

Best of luck.
I think after my parents had me, it completely killed their sex drive, haha. :'D 

He's kind of unwilling to do new things, I'm constantly buying him books with crossword puzzles and other easy word exercises, but he usually winds up shoving them in drawers and forgoing them to just sit in front of the TV. We do keep him moving though, since we encourage him to walk the dogs as often as he wants when the weather permits. But if we suggest anything else he automatically rejects it or just goes onto the defensive.  

The thing is, this whole situation is very confusing for all of us. We've seen multiple neurologists, but no one has been able to give us an exact diagnosis of what's going on. Alzheimer's and dementia have been tossed around, but so have "brain damage" (someone suggested that he didn't get the proper oxygen to his brain during the pacemaker surgery) and depression.  My mom has a theory that it has to do with a history of brain aneurysms in his family and I've been trying to research if it could have been a stroke. Without an exact diagnosis we can't figure out the best ways to help him, and that's probably what frustrates us the most. 
As much as I commend you for trying to buy him things to stimulate his brain, i know it makes my father extremely agitated and a bit angry when we push him to do these things (My dad is 60 with Early-Onset Alz). If he is still somewhat physically able, take him for a walk, or something lightly physical that he still CAN do. It is relaxing, and will give him some gratification.

Sorry your going through all this, it is so so hard. 
