My father in law will spend hours watching the photo Slideshow on their PC.  Maybe on of those picture Frames that can be loaded with photos of family members.
[deleted]
It depends on how advanced their dementia is?
This website has several gift ideas under $20, and a few more expensive, all based on recent research.  www.TheADplan.com/alzheimersgifts. I learned about it on the facebook page, there is A LOT of good information there www.facebook.com/AlzheimersDisease. Happy holidays!
Music that is familiar to them. Load it on an iPod or give them an album they used to listen to. People with dementia hold on to old memories and memories of music for a long time and they can find familiar music incredibly relaxing. Comfortable headphones might be good too.
A nice, soft blanket and some type of relaxing instrumental music ( I've had luck with some of the baby Einstein cd's.
Music box. Be sure it isn't too heavy, it's easy to wind, and the winding key is visible. 
A subscription to lumosity.com. 
For my grandfather with AD, we typically get him old movies he used to watch. Now that he's gotten quieter, he's usually content when we just leave a movie on. Sometimes he'll recognize the movie, and I think he likes the familiarity of old films.

Also, comfy pyjamas or shirts that are easy to get on/off so he can dress  himself. 

This past christmas, my mother bought him a kind of puzzle finder, to work on identifying things. He enjoyed traditional puzzles during the early stages. 
Sorry this is so late after xmas, but maybe for a birthday. My mother has Alzheimer's and last year I used iPhoto to make her a photo book. (There are a million sites out there where you can do this besides iPhoto. I've used Shutterfly for another project.) The book is loosely arranged into trips, friends, family and celebrations. There are captions (Who, Where, What) under each picture, but I don't think she notices them. I also wrote a few notes to her throughout the book, which her partner reads to her occasionally. What I've found to be great about this gift is that it is something she can share. It's hard for Alzheimer's patients to interact with people, so having this book out that she can use as a conversation starter is great. (Even if that means that about once a month she asks me if I have ever seen it.)

on a less labor intensive note: soft shirts/sweaters that can endure a million washes and wears, shoes that are lace-free, art (again with this idea that it is something they can interact with and share)

Slideshows, wow, thank you, that's a fantastic idea.
Good post. It can be really tough for them to follow board games and remember the rules.
Yes this is a great idea.  Music works so well.  If you have a song from the past that maybe would spark a memory for them it is the coolest thing ever to see.  I get my dad back when certain songs come on :)
A really simple MP3 player, loaded up, comfy headphones - this can all be done under $100, I imagine. Just make sure to confirm all of their favorite music.
