I don't have family with the disease, but I work on an Alzheimer's ward. The truth, for most cases, is that if the person is self-aware (as in they see the changes happening), this is the hardest time of the disease for most. They tend to call themselves stupid and negatively self-talk, or struggle with depression.

Surround her with as many things that are familiar and memory-encouraging as possible. Encourage her to continue to engage in the hobbies she is able to. If you know that there are things that frustrate her more than give her enjoyment, avoid these, or try to figure out a way to adapt them. Reminisce, reminisce, reminisce. Do your best to engage her in conversation about things she will remember better. Ask her to tell you stories of going back to school and other parts of her life she is most proud of. If you have access to it, or a family member does, put together a "memory book" and organize her pictures for her, with labels. I don't know what amateur radio is, but could you burn some content of things she would've played or listened to on CDs for her? Be mindful of the way you talk to her, shorter sentences, less colloquial terms or expressions etc. If she has a hard time comprehending your speech, it will make her feel as though she is stupid.

If it appeals to her, encourage creativity. It will become harder for her to think abstractly as the disease progresses, but for some intellectuals, this is a great outlet. Sketchbook and pencils, or a journal to write in. We have a resident at work that is in love with coloring [mandalas](https://www.google.ca/search?q=mandalas+to+color&hl=en&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ei=QhfKUqW1JcOdyQHWwYHYCw&sqi=2&ved=0CAcQ_AUoAQ&biw=1280&bih=619). It's soothing, relaxing and cognitively stimulating. 


Pride is a big issue with this demographic. Let her do everything she can independently, as the self-aware folks are very mindful of you hovering over them or trying to do too much for them. Task breakdown charts may seem demeaning to some, but they are very helpful for individuals who need extra prompting to do things independently, without desiring supervision and verbal prompts. I'm not sure how the disease is manifesting with her, but if she's struggling with fine motor skills, look into adaptive eating utensils. If she gets lost easily, make some attractive but easy-to-read signs to hang up to point her to the bathroom etc. 

Having Alzheimer's Disease is exhausting. Encourage a short afternoon nap, so that she will wake up feeling a bit refreshed and more able to handle afternoon and evening tasks like eating dinner without frustration. The evenings are when they find themselves often struggling most, when sundowning starts.

Sorry this is long and rambling. Hope this helps.
This is a big help. While some of it is a little way off I would hope, it's really encouraging to know there are things I can do. Thank you so much.
Have you encountered Human Mandalas?  http://humanmandalaproject.com/ if they enjoy mandalas and need social contact it might actually be helpful in your patient's situation.
Do this, as much as you can. My own grandmother has Alzheimer's and it's an awful disease.

When she was first diagnosed with it, I didn't know how to react and I avoided her. I'm not even sure why. Being with her made me uncomfortable and I had no idea what to do or say but that's a lame excuse at best. My girlfriend's grandmother died of AZ when we started dating and I never thought to ask her about it but it turns out she was really good at talking/making conversation with her own grandmother and she started giving me pointers and showing me how to act with my own.

But it's too late.. She's at the end of her memory, she can barely form sentences and has even forgotten who her children are, let alone her grandchildren. I feel like I missed my chance to speak with her.

Don't miss yours. Go see her as much as you can because the clock is ticking, faster than you think.
I totally get the awkward feeling and I doubt your the first or the last who struggled to find the words so I wouldn't be too harsh on yourself. We all find different ways to cope.

Thank you for the encouragement and advice though, it means a lot. I hope, in the nicest possible way, your Grandmother doesn't suffer much longer.
Cromo makes a great suggestion. Check out [this link from the Alzheimer's Society](http://www.alz.org/care/dementia-communication-tips.asp) for communication tips. The biggest thing is not correcting or contradicting them, and really genuinely listen even if they're telling you the exact same story for the 100th time. Ask questions just the same, and engage them. It can be exhausting at times but it is beneficial to them (working where I do I sometimes feel like I'm in the movie Groundhog Day, because I have the same conversations so often!) 

I have some residents that really struggle with word-finding but I usually know what they mean. I don't correct them when they say the wrong word or stumble through the sentence, I just respond to the question as though it was said correctly!
You're awesome.
