My mom died of this.

There is no therapeutic benefit to reiterating the facts they've forgotten. No amount of repetition is going to strengthen,  help solidify memory of the facts. 

For that reason, my opinion is that there's a cruelty to "reminding" of painful facts they've forgotten. 

For every potentially upsetting fact that came up, I would be as creative and imaginative as necessary to come up with a casual answer that wasn't painful or scary.

I figured it was painful and scary enough living with the confusion and uncertainty, so it seemed like the main gift I could give was never adding to that if I could help it.



This has been the hardest lesson for me. My SO has AD. Being happy is more important than being correct. It took forever to sink in and I still catch myself occasionally.
We constantly have to remind my Oma that she has Alzheimer's and that's why she's in the place she's living in. She constantly thinks she's just there for a temporary period, or will call my father demanding he come and bring her home.

It's just being patient and having to explain to her, again, the unfortunate news. My parents have become somewhat immune to my Oma's breakdowns, but they deal with them on a nearly weekly basis. Versus when I last witnessed the process I was very sympathetic and comforting.

But you need to find what works for you and your Nanna also. Just be calm, and just say something like "Nanna because of your memory problems you don't remember, but So-And-So passed away X years ago." Fill her in on the memory, tell her about the funeral (if you were there or whatever). Not sure how it works, but perhaps her knowing that she paid her respects already, she already grieved may help her out a bit?

It's tough, but I know I'd personally prefer to be told the truth.
As difficult as it was at first to "lie" to my mother, I found placating her was the only way both of us would walk away from a confusing moment stress free. I'm constantly having to tell her that her doggy is getting groomed and will be home soon, he died almost a year ago :(
This is basically what we're told to do in our dementia specific training at work. Imagine being told someone you love is dead. It's devastating. There's no reason to make them relive that every few hours. 

One woman I worked with would usually remember after asking me where her husband was and would say "He's in heaven, right?" In her case I would say yes and that it had been a while since he passed away. That was one of the rare cases when someone I worked with could remember on her own.
Oh I'm sorry *hugs*
I'm sorry *hugs*
