It sounds like it may also be another form of dementia. I don't know them all well, but Fronto Temporal Lobe can cause certain mood personality changes that are more dramatic and can happen earlier than the more common Alzheimer's. Not sure the best way to get her to the doctor, but if there's ever any opportunity, take her to see a neuropsychologist. When my mother-in-law started acting strange, we were able to get her to a doctor because she's always trusted doctors. I know with many other people that it's not so easy, they don't want to get tested. Of course, my mother-in-law doesn't know she has dementia, but we know from the tests, so we can take care of her appropriately. 
My Grammy has Alzheimer's and didn't go see a doctor for years, she no longer has any short term memory and her long term memory is starting to fail. I am her caretaker during the day, and she doesn't even recognize she is in her house, which she has owned for 10+ years. Talk to your mom and dad about all the risks, and if she still refuses to go, whenever you go to visit them, schedule her a doctor's appointment and take her yourself. If she won't go because it's the doctor, you may have to mislead her a little saying it's just a check-up or even an appointment for yourself. She may get angry, and it may sound mean, but trust me, finding out now will save you a lot of problems in the future. I wish we would have known sooner (it was hidden from us until she was hospitalized after assaulting my parents with firepokers, her fist, as well as going into other people's houses believing they were her house.) This is a very hard thing to deal with, patience is a key thing, but there are plenty of people out there, including myself, that are here to help with any questions you may have.
My family noticed similar symptoms in my mom, who was recently diagnosed with early onset (she's 62, been exhibiting symptoms for about 5 years). My two sisters and I talked to our dad about it quite a bit before we got him to take any action, because he was in quite a bit of denial about it. When he finally admitted that there was an issue, we took her to see several kinds of doctor and culminated in a series of neurologist visits. The neurologist performed mental acuity tests over the course of several months and took brain scans before diagnosing her. 

With my mom, it was hard. The diagnosis almost helped by breaking down the barrier of denial with her and my dad. They started taking action - like getting her on meds, joining support groups, and my workaholic dad started taking more time off to spend with her and to make sure she's getting as much social interaction as possible.

She retired a few years ago, which made it hard to keep her social. Please, please, please keep your mom social as much as you can. If she can keep working, make sure she keeps working, keeps using her brain. I don't know whether it would have helped my mom, but there was a rapid, rapid decline in my mom's mental ability when she retired. That was when we really started to notice that something was up. She went from a pediatric nurse practitioner to someone who couldn't figure out the remote control in a year or so. 

We also try to keep her anxiety levels low. She knows that she can't remember everything, so she often stresses about little tasks and things. We try to break them down for her as much as possible, and try to make sure she's busy. If she only has one agenda item for the week, she'll stress out about it all week. It helps to keep her busy.

I rambled a bit, but yea. Let me know if you have questions. I'm a newbie here, myself.
My husband started showing signs of memory impairment about a year and a half ago. Either he was (and still is) in denial, or he truly is unaware of his illness, which is an actual condition called anosogosia.

What I did was talk to his regular primary care physician privately. Shortly before a routine checkup, I phoned  the doctor and told him what was going on. I told him that my husband would not mention any memory problems, and asked him if he, the doctor, would broach the subject. So at his appointment, after discussing my husband's other health concerns, the doctor said, "Have you noticed any changes in your ability to remember things?"

My husband was a bit taken aback but I think relieved to have the subject out in the open among familiar, caring people (the doctor and me). He said, "I have noticed that I misplace things more often than I used to..." and went on to describe some other changes, like forgetting words or what day it is.

The doctor said, "Well, you know there are medications that can help with that. I think you should see Dr. Smith upstairs who specializes in these sorts of condition. He's a good friend of mine and I think you'll like him..."

My husband was diagnosed with mild cognitive impairment and has been seeing the neurologist regularly ever since. I think at some level he knows he has a problem and that the neurologist is the best person to help.
Yes I was wondering if it could be some other form of dementia since it's so early and only some of the signs seem to fit. I did a quick google search, but none of those dementia descriptions really fit either except for one that is caused by a lack of B-1 and most commonly found in alcohol a users, which she is not. However she does have a poor diet, which I've tried to get her to change.
thank you. My grandma was recently diagnosed and she was in a poor state when my mother was able to accompany her to the Dr. (they also live thousands of miles apart) Her symptoms were more obvious and her mood actually improved - she became happy-go-lucky and very positive where her natural temperament was a bit more..... difficult. Perhaps we took this early sign as just a 'mellowing with age'. I feel my future is going to turn into care taker for both of them. 

Thanks. My sister & I have talked to our dad but he just gets frustrated. How did you convince her to go do a Dr? My mom is so stubborn and my dad so bent on just keeping her happy that it's almost impossible to convince her there might be something wrong since she obviously doesn't want to believe there is. She is seeing her mom (my grandma) decline from alzheimers and I'm sure the prospect of having the disease herself is terrifying. 
I've been told by several friends to get in contact with mom's dr. But I'm not sure if this is an invasion of her privacy or if the dr can tell me anything/help given confidentiality issues. Or if I do contact him that he will interview her about the subject and be convinced she is just under stress, etc like she says to my sister & me. 

If your husband had denied anything was wrong, what was your next step to get him help

I'm glad to hear he is getting help byw. 


I'm sorry you are having to deal with things this way. I know it is hard, but in all honesty, I wouldn't let anyone else get the time I am getting with her. I bring my almost 5 months old son with me so she can see him as often as possible, even if she doesn't remember. Being the caretaker is a huge responsibility and it requires a lot of patience. It also requires taking everything that person says with a grain of salt. You can't argue with them, and it can be frustrating. If it comes down to it, please think about every possible angle. If you don't feel like you can do it, there is nothing wrong with that. But please don't just say "well, I have to.." because your loved one wouldn't want you to over stress yourself, because there is a lot of stress you will go through. 
We had a long delay between when my sisters and I noticed symptoms to when she went to the DRs, primarily because she and my dad were both so resistant. My maternal grandmother also had alzheimer's later on in life, so I think they were terrified of the diagnosis, too. 

My dad got confronted with some irrefutable proof of memory issues (beyond what he could rationalize as typical forgetfulness or lack of paying attention) when they went to visit friends in the city where I grew up. They were at a dinner party, and my mother told a story that could not be right, was obvious to the entire dinner party that it was not right, and my mom got aggressive when they tried to correct her. All of the people there were old family friends, and it took that embarrassing situation to get my dad to admit that there was an issue. 

After that, my dad reluctantly crossed over to mine and my sisters' side (as much as there are sides in this kind of situation). My eldest sister and my dad talked with my mom a lot about seeing a DR as a precautionary measure. I think it was always premised as a "It couldn't hurt to see if something's up." visit, and stressed that if we found nothing we could go on with our lives, and if we found something we could get treatment ASAP. 

That all being said, my sisters and I got a lot of flak from the other family members for a while. My brother thought we were being mean to her, and stayed adamant that nothing was wrong until (I think) the diagnosis. It was tough, but we knew something was wrong, so we kind of kept persistent. But to be honest, I'm still trying to find the "right" way to work with and talk to my mom. We have a kinda large family, and each of us seems to have a different way to work with my mom and with alzheimer's. 
There's a really good book that the neurologist recommended to me, [The 36-Hour Day](http://www.amazon.com/The-36-Hour-Day-fifth-Alzheimer/dp/1421402807). If you read it you'll come away with the feeling that patients with dementia cannot be treated like those with strictly physical illnesses. While it may seem like you're invading her privacy or going behind her back, it may be the only way to get her the help she needs. I don't think there's a confidentiality issue with the doctor if you simply tell him your concerns see how he feels about initiating the subject with your mom. He wouldn't be divulging any medical information to you.

My husband denied the problem until his regular doctor brought it up, at my request. That was the first time he admitted, perhaps even to himself, that something was amiss. He still is unaware, most of the time, that he is ill. Occasionally he'll say something like "God, my memory is totally shot," but then will go weeks like nothing's wrong.

Maybe, since your mom has sleep problems, you can urge her to get a neurological workup for that. Tell her that there are treatments for sleep disorders and she'll feel so much better if she gets those taken care of.
That's a great perspective. She had talked about going to see someone for narcolepsy, but I think the problem is more than just sleep. I'll urge her to follow that path. 
You can also send a letter to her doctor if you don't feel that you can call. Make sure your letter Is concerned, but lists facts, dates and events that cause you to be concerned. Include all symptoms she has including falling asleep. I would stay away from suggesting any diagnosis.  It's important that your mother sees a doctor no matter her ailment.  If your mother gets upset, you know that you are doing your best to help and the letter will list symptoms that she herself has experienced and told you about. 
