Hey, I'm really sorry to hear about your father. Mine has the same kind of dementia and he's in the same stage as your own. We're sort of preparing for the situation you have right now.

I don't know if it will go for your situation, but we've chosen not to give my father a feeding tube if the need arises. The reason for this is because if he was in his own mind and able to make decisions for himself, he wouldn't have wanted it anyway. We've made a lot of our decisions for dad based on what he would have wanted while still integrating the best available care for him. It's important to remember that while the person can't speak for themselves, they are still there and we would only be disrespecting the person we knew/know when it comes to making decisions they wouldn't have wanted. 

I don't know how long they can survive without food in a hospice setting, but I imagine the rule of three applies in some way; three weeks without food, three days without water, three minutes without air.

The unfortunate thing about feeding tubes with dementia patients is that they can cause confusion and fear. There's no way to explain that we're trying to help or what is on their body, and it's only natural they would try to remove it. At least, this would apply in my father's case, yours may have a different reaction. 

I realize I don't have much info here, but I wanted to remind you that you're not alone in your decisions, regardless of what path you take. We're all just trying to do the best for our loved ones, and don't let anyone make you think otherwise. 

Wishing you all the best. 
With an irreversible condition like dementia, most doctors will not recommend the use of a feeding tube because it can, in many cases, lead to increased suffering and lengthening of the time a person spends in the most painful part of their illness.

My experience is that patients in this stage are best served by having family around them as much as possible, although that can mean a week or more spent in hospice. The time a person lives in this state will also depend on their general health and any comorbidities.

Also, [here's](http://www.webmd.com/balance/questions-answers-artificial-nutrition-hydration-end-of-life-decision-making) a quick link that discusses some of these issues and might give you more concrete information.
>Is there evidence that avoiding artificial nutrition and hydration contributes to a more comfortable death?

>Yes. Much of this evidence is based on observations by those who have had a great deal of experience caring for people who are dying, such as hospice workers. They have noticed that patients who are not tube fed seem more comfortable than those who are.
Thank you for the kind and thoughtful response.

We met with hospice and the palliative care nurse today.  He has opted against the feeding tube in his living will.  My mom and sisters and I felt strongly that he wouldn't want to artificially prolong his life, and made our decisions with that consideration in mind.  That includes discontinuing the IV hydration and letting him choose when he wants to drink.

The IV hydration has the possible complication of his body just rejecting the liquid, which can be uncomfortable for him.  He's going to have nursing care and people trying to feed him, but it's ultimately up to him whether or not he eats or drinks.  If he begins to get dehydrated again, hospice will ask my mother if she wants to put him back on the IV, or if she wants to let it run its course at that time.

The nurse explained that at this stage, it's sort of like having the flu - when you have the flu, you don't really feel like you want to eat (except for your brain telling you that you have to!).  His breathing will slow and he'll sleep more and more, but he won't be in any pain.  If he eats or drinks, because of the muscles not cooperating in his throat, there is the chance that the food or drink could go into his lungs instead of his stomach, and cause an infection or pneumonia.  As part of our discussions, we opted against antibiotics or other drugs that aren't palliative care (i.e. if he gets a UTI from the catheter, he can get antibiotics for it because UTIs are painful).

We've been told that based on their experience and observations, once a patient stops eating and drinking, without a miraculous recovery, it takes them about two weeks to die.

Today was a hard day, in other words.

I know all too well right now how hard this is on your family, and I wish you all the comfort in the world.
