You might want to try looking at his old family pictures with him as well as asking him to tell you his story, how it used to be, etc. Maybe try a puzzle or read him the newspaper.
It can really help, put things in a new perspective for you, and I'm sure he'll love it too.
Good luck.
What did he do, for work and for fun, before dementia?

And don't feel too guilty about lots of TV. Its a safe activity.
You may want to try fidgety things, I made something similar to this  [Imgur](http://i.imgur.com/VKBhcJv.jpg) and it is better than you'd think at keeping him entertained.  Its a lot of trial and error, my grandpa is in the late stages, a few things that we found were:  Those moving sand pictures that you flip over were a great find, or really anything that does something when you flip it over(picture all those plastic things with blob-like liquid inside that moves in a cool way), Also things with buttons that make a sound or an action, and cards-- the fascination with those musical cards is ridiculously strong here! Good luck & experiment! 
I guess a lot depends on where he is at with the progression, but here's some stuff that we've tried with my mom:

* kid sized jigsaw puzzles and sorting toys, I usually find a good variety (and some good ideas) at the thrift store
* kinetic sand
* poker chips (and then having her sort into different colors)
* fun catalogs (like skymall)
* do a search on amazon (or wherever) for "fidget toys"

Hope this helps, but yeah, don't feel bad about TV time, sometimes it's the only option.  My mom does seem more responsive with her favorite shows from the past.  

With my mum I get her talking about the cat's we've had over the years. Usually get's her laughing and smiling at bit, as we're both cat mad.

Either that or when we lived abroad - we spent 3 years in Cyprus. She keeps telling me about her first time there, when I wasn't even born, but it keeps her talking.
r/occupationaltherapy
relevant.
Oh, good idea bout the pics, I actually brought a whole bunch of black and white photos from his house, I should break them out. Oh, and even a newspaper might keep him entertained. It takes a lot of effort for me to get him out of the house, but if he likes newspapers it would give me an easy way to get him out and get him something he enjoys.
He pretty much has been self-absorbed in his own psychotic-ness, paranoia, and delusions for the past few decades..  writing letters to the government for corruption, etc. but before that he had a masters in oceanography, and was a commercial fisherman. He has been a genius with numbers (he still rattles off things I could never compute in my brain) but I can't see him doing things like sudoku, as they don't have a point. He's really good with building things... although his house was a dump, he had it solar rigged and his power bill was down to 9 bucks a month (That is extremely low for an outer-laying island in Hawaii). I'm pretty at a loss here for ideas.. his left side of his body is also extremely weak, so typing and instruments (he played banjo) are also a chore.
Interesting about the fidgety toys, I'll look into them and see how that goes! Thanks for the advice!
Thanks for making me feel better about the TV.. I guess it really is a good thing because he is pretty unstable and falls a lot. I do try to keep the TV on documentaries and science things, which is more his style. I'll look into the fidget toys too, sounds interesting! He keeps saying he is not interesting in puzzles but I think I'll throw one out and see how he does.
Yes, do give it shot, I think you will find some things that will occupy his attention:) 
