What a wonderful idea! This sounds like a high tech version of a book I gave my grandparents when I was little. They filled it out and gave it back. I treasure those books. It would feel even more special if their voice was associated with it. I'm a Speech Language Pathologist who works mainly with geriatric patients. I can think of so many uses for an app like this, mostly with patients who have degenerative conditions. 

Someone in the early stages of dementia can use this to record their memories, not just for themselves, but for their family members. While recent memories tend to go first, earlier memories as well as speech function are eventually lost. This is an easy way to record those memories. This can also be useful for patients in a nursing home. There are a few studies out that when the staff knows something about their patient, they are more likely to spend time with them. Your app could have a function where the family, Speech Pathologist, nurse, etc. selects 10 pre-recorded stories that the caregivers listen to as they are providing cares to the patient. That can then facilitate conversation. Even if the patient has limited language function, social interaction is very important. It can also be an activity family members participate in when they come and visit. Listen to a story together as told by their loved-one. 

People with ALS typically loose the ability to speak towards the end of the disease. This sounds like an easy way for them to record their life story for their family members. 

This could be super useful for someone who has had a stroke. If the stroke affects a certain part of the brain, it can cause aphasia, loss of language function. While they would have had to already record their stories, an app like this could be really valuable to them. In grad school I participated in a group called "Tell your Life Story" where participants made a scrapbook of their lives. They then (in theory) used it to communicate with others and facilitate conversation. With this app, they could continue to tell their grandkids stories about their childhood. 

Other ideas:
-Allow users to upload pictures then record a caption for the picture. 
-Make it so family members can set up the questions beforehand.
-Set a reminder to do one a day. 
-Make the controls SUPER simple and even have the ability to turn on step-by-step instructions (either written or audible)
In my mom's case, it's the short-term memories that seem to be a problem retaining. She's great at recalling things that happened years ago. It would be wonderful for there to be a way of addressing that unobtrusively; repeatedly peppering someone with dementia with questions is pretty universally discouraged.
Disclaimer: all dementia is different, so I'm about to generalize

The app sounds really good as a concept, unfortunately, the reality of dementia is often more sinister. Older memories are fairly easy to remember (mostly), but more recent memories are harder. 

There are a few problems though:

Understanding technology is a mental skill. Dementia also causes the loss of technological understanding.... apps go early, remote controls and stuff in the middle, forks and toilets at the end. Now, a caregiver could still operate an app for the benefit of the person with Dementia... However....

looking, watching, understanding are also skills. There are so many times my Mother in law is thirsty, so she yells "water". But she is sitting on her bed, and right beside her on the table is water. So I point at it and say your water is right on the table.. she looks straight at me. So I say "Look on the table" and point again.. but still she does not see it. Even if I hold it right in front of her, she looks at the ceiling instead of at the water. While she can sometimes watch very familiar movies, showing her a picture and expecting her to understand is very difficult. A lot of times She will also lie and pretend she understands what you are showing her "This is you riding a unicorn...""Oh yeah, I see that" "... this is a picture of an apple..." So her ability to comprehend that is limited. She sees herself in the mirror, and it is a stranger looking back. 

So this is an interesting concept you have here, and it sort of enforces the future of "cyberbrains" concept.. but for dementia, it is of limited value. I do appreciate you taking the time to post here, and perhaps for those other forms of dementia it would be more valuable. 
I definitely really enjoy this idea.. My father has a Parkinsonian movement disorder and has some dementia-like symptoms that have come along with this in the process. Writing is very hard for him though he does want to write down stories like this for the future. I tried teaching him to use Dragon dictation, but it didn't go over well. This app, though it may have faults when marketed directly to typical dementia sufferers as other users have shared, could be of great use to some people! They have notebooks/journals that help save these similar memories, but to be able to record in your own voice and share with family and others could be a really special thing.
Perhaps add music.  Have popular songs from different eras, let them listen and then ask for a memory connected with the song.  Include hymns, show tunes and movie music.
Thank you very much. Those are great ideas!
My Mom has the same problem, so I suggested she carries a little notebook with her all the time, and takes notes of anything she might need to remember, such as shopping or to-do lists.

I asked her to try to get into the habit of checking it every morning to see if it helps jog her memory.

She missed the computer revolution, so an app would unfortunately help very little.
Thank you very much. It seems it would really only be of much value before the dementia starts in.
Thanks! I hope it can have a good impact on at least some people.
This a good idea. Thanks.
My mom's purse is littered with Post-it notes that never get read. She used to use computers back when she was working, but stopped using them roughly around the time of Windows 3.1. I'm not sure if I'd be able to get her to use a tablet, but she was very interested in a video that was playing on my iPad about the Asian American experience down through the decades.
Or until it gets to the dis-associative phase, which some people can be in for a long time. 

The thing that is hard to understand about Dementia/Alzheimer's is that memory is not just remembering things, but how to control your body, perception, etc. It's really strange, and you never quite get used to it, as a caregiver. 
