This would be highly individual.  Some people just can't bear it.  I find the best strategy is for the target of the abuse to leave.  If anyone else is there, they can try to appease her.  The target can usually re-enter the room after about 15 minutes of distraction, but not always.  Some people just can't emotionally handle it, it kills their love for the patient.  At this point, my father is just an elderly man I care for.  The man he was, good and bad, died a long time ago.  
Well, my mom is a narcissist, so she wasn't the most pleasant person for us to be around before the dementia.  She's been diagnosed with mid stage dementia with psychosis and paranoia, but her speech is fine and she still has good communication skills. 

 Her biggest problem is the paranoia, coupled with anger from being taken from her home and put in assisted living.  She stays on the phone all afternoon and spreads lies about me, my sister and my bil to everyone she knows.  We don't know how much is due to her paranoia and how much is just her narcissism coupled with her anger at us.  She's telling everyone that we're stealing her money, put her away so we can steal her money because there's not a thing wrong with her, we've sold her house out from under her, and on and on.  None of it is true, but most of her friends and family believe her.  We've gotten a lot of backlash from it, but people will believe what they want to believe. 

We can't visit her.  She is very verbally abusive, has told me I'm not longer her daughter, told my sister she didn't love her.  She's been verbally abusive toward us much of our lives, but now it 10 times worse.  I would like to go get her and take her out to lunch, or shopping, or just visit with her, but I'm not putting myself into the position for her to verbally bash me.  I've had several people at the assisted living home tell me it will get better and eventually we'll be able to visit....but they don't know my mother.  I think she will have to totally forget who we are before that will happen.
It might not hurt to ask if there is anything prescription-wise that could be attempted.

My mom got put on prozac early on because her primary physician was looking hard for some other diagnosis, and sometimes memory problems in older people are a sign of depression.

After couple of years, when it was crystal clear that depression was not the problem, we decided to drop the prozac, since it seemed completely irrelevant.

Lo and behold, mom got a lot nastier, a lot harder to "handle".

Brought back the prozac, and mom went back to being easier to be around.

Anyway, just one person's story, but couldn't hurt to ask...
It's very difficult. I usually distance my self for a couple of days and then try to start again from 0. Also, try not to disagree with her avoid arguments, it's impossible to reason with them. 
In addition, try to stop arguing and spend at least a brief period doing something you enjoy together. 
I walk off. Do not engage. It actually trained my father in law to not do it anymore. When my husband got it and in the early stages I did the same thing. They forget they were upset. Seems to have trained him too. Maybe have dementia, but there is still something there somewhere. 
> At this point, my father is just an elderly man I care for. The man he was, good and bad, died a long time ago.

This.

I didn't have the option of not visiting because I cared for my mother in her home during my father's illness and after he died. Her dark moods were frequent, and she used to stand in the bathroom raging at the image in the mirror. I figured if she didn't recognize herself she certainly wasn't hating me personally when she raged at me. 

>how to stay supportive and continue visiting?
>he might rather stay home.

The sad truth is that in the end it won't matter. But I agree with u/Lordica above. Don't hang around for the verbal rant. Disappear for awhile and return to see if things are any better, and if not, leave. Try to go on a weekend morning or early afternoon to avoid the sundown effect. Always speak in a calm, soothing tone, and try not to contradict what is being said that is hurtful because that is just fueling the fire. And don't take it personally.

Good luck.
I'm in a similar situation, my dad keeps saying that I want to steal from him, etc. I distance myself from him and avoid arguments
