Lie.  It sounds awful, but it works.  Tell her that she is there temporarily until some work is done on her house.  Make sure the facility you choose has experience dealing with emotionally distraught residents without resorting to anti-psychotics.  Strateigize the move with them and other trusted family members.  Plan carefully what familiar items will be waiting for her when she moves in.  I know how hard this is and how guilty you feel.  If there's a good way to do this, I don't know what it is.  Have you found a facility you feel confident about?
Two years ago, my wife's parents were both deemed unfit to be alone. Her mother was diagnosed with alzheimers and her father with vascular dementia caused by mini strokes. We immediately moved in with the two of them with our young daughter. I had a full time job getting me out of the house everyday but my wife found herself running a full care nursing home on her own. She showed strength and resolve which i never new she had. We found it very difficult getting help from the powers that be and had to learn a lot as we went.
As everyone so fat has said. Lie. Or just don't bring it up. It sounds selfish but trust me, not only does it make it easier on you but its by far kinder than breaking their heart every day by telling them the truth that they wont remember. 
We were told that as long as they were both otherwise healthy and safe, they were staying put with us. Her mother was extremely aggressive and believed we were conspiring to poison her and her husband so we could take the house. There were many confrontations. She would become livid and then forget why. Then with great concern say that her heart was racing and she felt light headed. On one occasion we convinced her that an EMT should look at her who convinced her that maybe an overnight in the hospital for observation would be a good thing. We knew that the best thing for all would be for her to stay and so my wife refused to take her
home. It was the only way to get the system to pay attention to our situation. Her mother stayed in that hospital room for 3 months while a bed was found in a nearby facility. The family visited everyday and assured her that she was only there for the night for some tests. The whole family lied for 3 months and said she was only there for the night and she was fine with that. 
My wife's father was a little more accepting of what was happening to him and his wife and he stayed with us for another year before we got him a bed in the best facility in the province. His wife moved into the same facility two days before hand and after not seeing her for a year, he was happier than i had seen him in a while. He was on the list for a long while and we knew it was the best thing for him. We accepted it and had a few conversations with him where he knew it was what was needed. But when the phone call came telling us that he had a bed it was a punch to the gut. We all felt like the worst people in the world.  You will too. Just remember that it is better for them and you this way

TLDR: Lie, say what ever needs to be said so that the moments that your loved ones have are the calmest they can be. Because that's all that most of them have now, moments.


I have to agree with the lying. It sucks, goes against everything we have ever been taught, but it can work. After my father in law had another stroke, drove through the garage door for the third time and was having problems getting his drivers license away, relatives were fighting me and the insurance co said he can drive until he kills someone as long as you pay the premiums. I finally went to him and said, so sorry, they cancelled your insurance. That worked. 
I agree. As sad and disheartening as it seems, this is what has worked for me. My mom has been in a care facility that she doesn't like, in a town she definitely doesn't like. She calls me everyday to find out when she's moving home. While it's true that I will be relocating her to her home town, it might be a few weeks or months before I can. I always just say "a few more days."
No, it's really difficult. My mom cries and screams even when I'm in the restroom. I am the only driver in the family and we have to ask friends or help with rides for my brother to visit them. I wish there were services to make this easier.
I love that; "Because that's all that most of them have now, moments."  I often feel bad that that's all I can give are moments.  
I know.  It sucks.  I took my dad to lunch at his new facility several times so it wasn't so unfamiliar.  Talk with the social worker ahead of time about a transition plan.  If there really isn't a facility you have confidence in, would an in-home caregiver be a possibility?
She has one but the government service only approved her for a few hours a day. She needs 24/7 care assistance. She's gone through 5 caregivers, shes very difficult to handle.  She used to be calm with a caregiver with her but now shes only able to calm down with my help.
