I'm terrified I'm getting dementia even though I'm in my early 20's. It's very strong in my family. I have bad migraines and I'm starting to get more memory problems. 
I'm a care giver for a family member. I would suggest planning out things ahead of time and try to find a support group of some kind. Best wishes to the best of you. Dementia is a fucking bitch. 
You need to think practicalities right now.  Get lasting power of attorney for both legal and medical decisions.  Start making plans around support and future care.  Once that side of things is done, allow yourself to grieve.  Get into counselling, god knows you will need it.
21? That's.. that's almost unheard of. Even early onset is usually 40's or 50's. My god, that is terrible! I am so sorry. There is some promising research going on now, but a lot of it is not in human testing phase. Contact the John's Hopkins Hospital people, they have some things they ARE trying in people. Get yourself a support group now... people who are potentially willing to give up a day or two a week to help relieve you when you need it. And get her to teach you, specifically, how she does EVERYTHING now, while she can do things. This will probably affect her motor functions, and she may have trouble doing even simple things.  Also, probably get some counseling soon; you'll need it at some point, probably not for years but...
I have EOD. I caught it early and take a number of stimulants (prescription and OTC) to counter the effects.

I would strongly advise you ask the doctor to prescribe Modafinil for her. Its primary application is to help people with Narcolepsy and/or Sleep Apnea, improve their cognitive abilities and memory especially.

http://examine.com/supplements/Modafinil

The other substance I find helps a lot is organic coconut oil, which I started using after I found videos like these. It is cheap, easily obtainable, and well worth a try. I take a teaspoon full with every cup of decaf I drink such that I get at least 2 tablespoons a day. I found the results to be immediate and quite spectacular.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_9INyTTXfR0

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PBTr9iQQuq4
