I would tell my father that my deceased mother was out shopping, taking a nap, working in the garden; whatever would soothe him.  Making him learn of her death time after time was unnecessarily cruel.  Consider leaving a note that says he will be home from work in an hour.  Each time she finds it, the clock will reset for her.  
Hey OP, just wanted to check in, how are you going?
I'm only a nursing student, but a lot of the information I have read suggests to "exist in the moment with the person with Dementia, not trying to explain away their thoughts and beliefs." 

First off, I'm terribly sorry about your Grandfather's death and how distressing the situation is with your Grandmothers illness and calls. 


Have you tried reassuring her that he will be home in a minute? I know it is lying but ultimately it could be best for you all. Maybe a note to her at her house saying he is at the shops or running errands and see how she feels about that? And asking the aides to confirm it? 
 
Best wishes and good luck. 

Exactly this. OP you need not keep having her re-experience over and over and over again that he has passed. The memory doesn't and won't sink in - but the emotional distress will affect her EVERY time. Experiment with different reassuring statements- "I'm sure he' s fine"  "he's run to the store" "he told me not to worry, he's running late." people always struggle with feeling dishonest- but those with dementia cannot change they way they process information- we have to change the way we present information- it becomes less about being absolutely factual and more about being comforting and compassionate. To insist on a reality that they cannot comprehend is a problem. Think of it like speaking with a child, would you drop all the harsh awful facts of life on them- or would you instead take into account their innocence and modify your behavior to fit their abilities and comprehension? This is not just us suggesting, this is the method of memory care professionals everywhere. Now, re the agitation, the frustration is real, I gather that! Perhaps you'd be best served to turn the ringer off sometimes. Or better yet, add another line for regular life, and only listen to/respond to her messages as much as it works for u to do so.  Hope this is helpful. Its a tough road you are on, take care and all the best. 
