Don't worry! Having the variant is just a risk factor. It means you are more likely to get the disease. It is in no way a death sentence.

Two things:
- Research the biology behind the disease and stay up to date with new potential emerging neuroprotective therapies.

-Mitigate other AD risk factors including:
Sedentary lifestyle, midlife obesity, sepsis, poor oral health
Reference: http://www.nature.com/nri/journal/v14/n7/full/nri3705.html

the very important thing here that you seem to have missed is that the E2 allele is actually protective. So you have one protective and one risk allele. whether these alleles even out and you basically have a normal risk for alzheimers, or if one will win out, im not sure. Im sure its been studied, and you could probably find out with a quick search of "apoE2/E4 AD risk" on google or google scholar.
haha you're actually fine. you have one gene that increases risk. That sucks. You also have the gene that decreases risk. That rocks!
This is true and there is a detailed article on 23andme about this, but I was wondering, if I have these genes can I do anything to contribute to research? Would there be anyone I can contact? maybe having a full genetic sequencing and MRI's and anything else to add some data to a research project somwhere, would my body have any use to the advancement of the research at age 28 and tracking it as it goes forward?
im sure there is, whether you can contribute from where you live im not sure. I would talk to your doctor who may know more about or even be involved in current clinical trials/studies or google search AD clinical trials ongoing to try and find a multi-center study that is being conducted at a clinic near you. Im not very well versed in clinical research so there may be a better way to do it but that would be my best guess.
https://clinicaltrials.gov/ is the best place to look to see if you can contribute to ongoing research for future therapeutics.
I'm the other side of the pond
Check out this:

[Welcome to 'Join dementia research', a place to register your interest in participating in dementia research.](https://www.joindementiaresearch.nihr.ac.uk/)

By the way, I wouldn't worry too much. Because you have both the protective and the risk forms of APOE, your lifetime risk of AD is about average.
