I'm currently at AAIC (the big annual Alzheimer's conference) and I'm trying to track down a drug rep to answer your question. Will report back if I can. In the meantime, wanted to mention that the drug combo is not slowing the progression of the disease, it is masking symptoms temporarily. No drugs slow Alzheimer's progression.
Hi there. That price is similar to what we pay now that we are in the "donut hole" in prescription coverage with Medicare. If that isn't the problem, please just ignore. 

In addition there is a resource I use for aricept (Namenda isn't offered) www.rxoutreach.com
They provide low cost prescriptions. They ask for income levels but they have high limits. 
Update: I was on phone with a very helpful and informative rep from her insurance and explained the 100 dollars is a detectible that we only pay once and we discussed prices of meds you all suggested. I feel silly I did not know it was one time thing but I am very thankful for all the advice and input I really appreciate it. 
No official responses on this, but XR expected to be a bit cheaper. Likely won't see generic availability for a while. Hope to get you better details soon.
Sorry to hear that, my grandfather was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease a week ago. He is at the early stage. The doctor give him curcumin as a dietary supplement and other medicine. I looked into it. It is a disease that may run in a family. I also found that in India there is a low morbidity of AD. It is because that Indian eat a lot of curry, whose main ingredient is turmeric. I decide to add more curry in my daily food. Moreover, I found the following helpful information on a website http://www.best-dietary-supplements.com/curcumin-11-benefits
A case report argues that turmeric is of importance if used to treat Alzheimer's disease (AD), a condition defined by memory loss and the intellectual abilities which are severe and have interfere with one daily life. The idea behind the concept is that, turmeric is rich of Aromatic (ar-) turmerone which in actual sense regenerate neural stem cells. This has the meaning that turmeric has proven to protect one against neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer's disease (AD). The turmerone is good in that it reverse the damage impacted by the disease by re-growing brain cells thus restoring the disease. Curcumin is one of the extract from turmeric which has antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and ant-amyloid effects which is the cause of Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Throughout the study, three patients who had reported of short-term memory loss, forgetfulness, disorientation of place and time, hallucination, agitation depression and dementia were put under the use of turmeric supplements. After being prescribed turmeric 764 mg/day (curcumin 100 mg/day) powder capsules treatment for 12 weeks, all the effects and symptoms were effectively reduced with no adverse effects. The medication was administered orally.
Reference: Hishikawa N, Takahashi Y, Amakusa Y, et al. Effects of turmeric on Alzheimer's disease with behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia. Ayu 2012;33:499-504.
Hope it can help you!

Thank you. 
Can you please elaborate by what you mean that they mask the symptoms? 
Thank you so much for the aricept resource.  My mother was recently diagnosed.

She was paying around 40 dollars before and  as far as I know her Medicare hasn't changed. When I called her prescription number they verified that the price has gone up.  Thank you for the link it's crazy to me that a drug for a group of people on a fixed income is over 500 dollars without insurance and 130 with. 
Thank you. She on 10mg twice daily so I am guessing she could do XR 
Those drugs are SYMPTOM modifiers, not DISEASE modifiers. They may appear to reverse disease progress, but in actuality the disease continues to progress unabated. Meanwhile, symptoms (shakes, cognition, attentiveness, etc) appear to go away or lessen. The affects are only temporary.
So, XR provides an increased dosage and has been picked up by many plans as the preferred/approved variant, so depending on your grandma's coverage it should be cheaper. However, if she's doing a combo, she may want to look into Namzaric, which is already a combo of Aricept and Namenda. Pricing overall might work out better.
Thank you!!! I will call her dr tomorrow  with all info everyone has given me
