Continue to work with a neurologist to make sure this isn't something treatable.  Make sure you have all your legal ducks in a row; a POA, access to bill paying and banks, advanced medical directives.  Talk with her *now* about what she wants as this progresses.. Is assisted living financially possible? 
When I have worked with clients who have Alzheimer's or any kind of dementia I have generally asked this question, "How old are you today?" That has always given me a good indication as to what kind of day it is for them. 
Essentially, the best thing is to be there for her, provide her with activities that support her at that moment, "Where do you want to go today? How do we get there? What do you want for dinner tonight? How do we make that?" Anything which would allow her some control over her life. On bad days, maybe all she can do is fold towels.

Another thought is creation of a memory book which can be referenced later.  There are many examples on the Internet. And while you are on the Internet, there is an Alzheimer's store. You may never need its products but it can provide you with some ideas about how to deal with memory loss. 

Ask the medical professionals, doctors, case managers, nurses for assistance and options. And yes, as Lordica said, get the legal questions asked and dealt with. 
My advice? Look after yourselves as carers... it's a long long road for her and you.
I find with my own mom that she just wants to feel useful, like she has a purpose and is a part of things. So giving her a task that she can complete is great. Or doing something together - baking cookies maybe? or you could go to a soup kitchen and she could just spoon out food. Obviously depending on how she is that day it may have to be simple. Physical activity is also great - my mom likes going for walks. She seems happiest talking about the past because she remembers it so well. So make a cup of tea and have her tell you the stories behind pictures in an old photo album. But yes I agree with the comment to support yourself as well - don't forget to take time for to make you feel whole in all of this. 
Well, right now she's at home with my father, sister, and I. Someone's usually with her all day, one of us. We're thinking of having her do volunteer work with the Alzheimers Society, so she can see how people deal with their symptoms, and so doctors can subtly keep an eye on her health. Of course all of this will be put ibto action after and if there is a certain diagnosis. We'll probably have to take more medical oriented steps if it's just an aggressive cerrebellar degeneration.
Thanks alot, this is great advice! I'll definitely look into that book for her. I think a section with contact numbers and info would be great for her. Much appreciated!
Have to agree here. 
If you don't take care of yourself you will be completely useless for her. 
