So what is the value of a life that lasts, 10 years, 20 years, 40 years, 60 years, 80 years? You have made your choice regarding reproduction, but this does not means others would make the same choice even with the same knowledge. 

As far as the kids are concerned, well they are not adults yet; they don't have the skills to make informed choices especially about this. Be happy with your own choice, wait until the kids have grown and even then allow them to make their own choices. 
How old are the kids? 

Depending on their age, not sure about the legal footing of suing you for disclosing information like that, at least outside of some pre-existing legal contract. I'd ask an actual lawyer. 

If it were me, I'd probably tell them if they were old enough to handle it. Like teens or older. 

Secrets fester. Give them the chance to make their own choices, not have them made for them by their parents who are in denial. If I were one of those kids, I'd want to know, and to be able to get genetically tested and make my OWN decision with that information. It's not terribly ethical for the parents to withhold that info. 

Of course it's easy for an internet stranger to say these things. Much harder to be the black sheep and the bad guy and get ostracized from your family. So sorry. Dementia sucks. 
I think you should keep it to yourself. It's not 100% that these family members will develop dementia. That's a tough thing to come to terms with though, to know that you might end up facing complete loss of memory and self sufficiency. 

If there were a test that could tell me if I would face Alzheimer's, like my mother, I absolutely would not take it. From my perspective, it would steal all hope from my future to know that I faced dementia. Perhaps that's how your relatives feel as well.  

It's not really fair to withhold medical information as it doesn't allow their children the freedom to make informed choices, so I understand your struggle.  If you feel you must tell the children, well no one can stop you, but there will likely be some serious consequences within the family.
This is the first I have heard that it can be hereditary. My husband has dementia, his father and father's brother did. Must do some research now. But I have been working with dietary and his memory has improved when I took his sugar away from him. There is none in the house and he is doing so much better. No more mood swings, grumpy and memory better. I doubt it will fix it, but the difference is amazing. 

We have no children, I wasn't able. Maybe so this was a good thing!
Can you give example of symptoms and at what age? 
Sorry this is a little off topic, but my Granny has dementia and has been living with my Mom for a couple years since my Papa died. I've felt strongly that her diet really influences her daily disposition. My Granny eats a lot of sweet stuff, in fact it's really all she wants. I don't think her taste buds work anymore. Where can I find the info about diet (especially sugar) and dementia?
Me or the writer or both? My father in law was exhibiting symptoms in his 50's, and my husbands also started early 50's. Slow, just odd stuff at first. We would have a conversation and then later he wouldn't remember. Said I must have conversations with him in my head. Then got to where he would get upset about small things, I now know he was forgetting where things were, he stopped doing the remodeling, as he was forgetting how to do things. When I was selling and cleaning out this last year, I found bags and bags of stuff from Home Depot for projects that he forgot he bought and then bought more. Love Home Depot. They took it all back! 

What messed things up and I couldn't get any help from the doctors was he suddenly started drinking! Out of character. The doctors said he was just a drunk. I took his car and alcohol away and it turned out he was just forgetting he had had a drink and then had more! They said I couldn't do that, it had to be his "choice" to quit. I fired all three of them. 

He is 61 now, doing fine, just no memory. Loves to help me with stuff, but needs supervision. I had him cut down a large bush and he got stuck in cut down mode and went after my 40 year old rose bush. We hid his the saw, the rose is growing back and he has forgotten all about bushes. 

The big difference between him and his father and uncle is they always blamed anyone and everyone around them until the day they died. My husband and I have a good relationship and when I finally figured it all out, I have never lied to him about his dementia and since he trusts me, we are doing fine.

I guess I am venting a bit too. The last couple of times I have been on any dementia site, I mention firing three doctors and they were useless to harmful, I got downvoted all to hell.  So this may be my last post. I feel so very alone in all this and haven't even been able to find anything on the Dementia thread that is helpful either. Except now to research hereditary.
I went mostly Paleo a couple of years ago and my health and memory improved dramatically. 

There are links all over the internet know. This is just the first one I ran across when I looked a few minutes ago. I am a CNA and most dementia people   eat a lot of sugar. My husband didn't eat a lot but it was getting up there the worse he got. Without the sugar he is no longer moody and is back to the seriously sweet man I married. 

http://articles.mercola.com/sites/articles/archive/2014/07/24/sugar-brain-function.aspx

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/kristin-kirkpatrick-ms-rd-ld/dangers-of-sugar_b_3658061.html

rats will choose sugar over cocaine,
Dementia is a wicked wicked disease. I'm not a regular here, but I check in from time to time hoping to get a little help for my 88 year old Granny who is living with my Mom. I'm sad that you feel alone, but I totally understand it. Other people who haven't had first hand experience with caring for someone like this will never understand the agony. 
 
I don't know anything about your situation with the doctors, but I'll say this. There are good and bad doctors just as there are good and bad people. When a doctor doesn't understand the entirety of a patients health situation and refuses to try, I think it's ok to move on. I think it would be best to try and find a doctor who is not only familiar with dementia, but who has some experience with it as well. I'd try and find a doctor because health issues will certainly arise and having someone who knows your husband and is familiar with his progression will be able to help treat him appropriately. 
 
Again, I'm so sorry you have to go through this, and know you're not alone. 
After reading your post yesterday I started looking around and read the mercola article. Very interesting. I've recently replaced a lot of my fat (butter, cooking oil, etc) with coconut oil because I had read of the health benefits in general. 
 
My Granny used to eat a really healthy varied diet, and grew and canned her own veggies for years. Now if we offer her anything besides a blt, egg and bacon, cottage cheese and mandarin oranges, or cookies or sweets of some kind she won't even touch it. She gets very irritable and agitated if we even suggest something else, which is so not like her. Until the last few years, she was the most meek, unassuming, sweet lady you would ever meet. Now however, she's cantankerous at best. Sometimes she throws fits and pouts like a 2 year old child. It's soo difficult to watch. If the "her 10 years ago" saw how she is now, she'd be mortified. 

Thank you so much for the info, I'm certainly going to research it a bit further now.
Good luck! The egg, bacon, cottage cheese are all ok. But the sugar is bad. Fruit works. But it is sad. So many dementia people keep cookies and candy by their bed. It sounds like she got addicted. I got all of it out of the house, so he can't even sneak it. Easy as I don't eat it. The cantankerous is probably sugar ups and downs. 
