Wow! I really feel for you. My mom's judgement and short term memory are impaired, but she's social and communicates without any problems. I'm having a hard enough time with the realization that she's not quite the same woman who raised me, who I depended upon as a child and by whose presence I derived comfort and security, and can't imagine how I would feel if she wasn't always mentioning various occasions and other recollections from my childhood. I think urinating in the bathtub you should just let her do; it's liquid that will go down the drain and isn't the health risk that feces are. I'm unsure about the defecation since that does contain lots and lots of microbes/bacteria. Are you male or female? If you're female, it might not be too intrusive for you to accompany her to the bathroom and just make sure she's going to use the toilet before exiting and letting her finish on her own. As for constant monitoring, who's present at any given time of the day, you, your dad, the caregiver? Are there more than one of you present throughout the day? I know what it's like wanting her to have supervision 24/7, so it might be useful for there to be two people present throughout the day, where the two switch off on dedicated monitoring shifts. Absent that, where it's too much on your plate and you can't keep up, a residential care facility may be the best option. It's hard, and you just want to tell her to think and have her understand, but that's not going to happen, which is emotionally crushing.
I don't have much to add to be helpful just wanted to say that I've been there. My mom had PPA and went through some serious bathroom issues. I  feel you, if I could give you a hug I would. 
Could you drape something over the tub so it won't be super apparent to her thats what it is? Is the going to the bathroom causing her any anger or irritation? 
Adult diapers and the old fashioned catsuit put on backwards so she can't take it off. And then timed visits to toilet.  I had a similar problem and that seemed to help best.

Oh and also I changed my mom's diet to nutrition shakes, lots of smoothie and smoothie soups, etc. Seemed to help the bowel movements
Your post totally resonates me. I feel like she's just not my mom anymore, and more often than not feel like her caregiver than her son. We do pretty much have someone on duty watching her 24/7, between the caregiver, my dad and I. I try to hold onto the good memories because she was a great mom. I know a care facility is in the future but at this point I think we're getting by. At this rate though I think she might only have a year before we have to seriously consider a caregiver. Thank you for your kind words and advice.
Thank you for the ehug 😀. The only time she got irritated was when my dad saw her peeing in the tub, otherwise she doesn't mention it. I was inspired by your idea and will try getting some plastic sheeting and covering the tub with it, taping down the plastic so she can't access the tub. And then making sure the toilet is open with the seat down.
I would even go a step forward and drape it with something like blankets so that it just doesn't resemble a tub at all. It's unlikely that she's being spiteful, just confused. 
I had just thought of that before reading this post. Yes. It's a great idea. I got advice from some source or other that advised that diverting attention away or hiding/masking the undesired option is a good tactic. My mom uses the microwave from time to time, which was having disastrous results since she'd put a cup of coffee in to warm it up, which wouldn't normally be bad, but the stupid thing has a button labeled, "Reheat", which I'm not sure what the manufacturers had in mind since it nukes whatever is in there so intensely that it was causing the coffee to boil and bubble with explosive spurts, leaving a mess. I ended up covering the despised button with a taped on label with the word, "No", written on it, and that has done the trick. I did the same thing with the TV and digital converter box (the TV/cable set up is in the family room, and she uses non-cable in the bedroom before going to sleep) remote controls, which was really problematic since you use one to turn on the TV and another to turn on the digital converter and change channels, so I've taped over all the buttons that she's not supposed to use on each remote control.
Thank you. , argyle and Sarah for your support. She might try to take the plastic off so putting some blankets over is a great idea.
