I don't have a good answer for you, as I juuuusst posted a similar question here myself asking about the Alzheimer's gene. 

I'm sorry to hear about what you're going through. May I ask... what made you suspect for a long time that he would be diagnosed?

I've thought about getting tested myself but my thought is this: If you're positive for gene then you'll feel that label hanging over your life- changing the way that you live it. When in the end, you may never develop AD and will have had so much anxiety for so long.
No I haven't. And no I won't. Unless/until a tested "cure" has been developed, getting that nasty bit of news wouldn't change ANYTHING for me, except maybe my medical coverage and life insurance rates. 
My mom has early on-set Alzheimer's (was diagnosed when she was 50, symptoms started at around 48/49) and I can't decide if I want to go tested or not. We have no family history so this appears to be spontaneous... I don't know. I've been thinking about this and would like to know more, too. 
I signed up for 23andMe about a year ago.  They have just resumed providing health related genetic tests in the US after the FDA made them stop for two years.  I signed up a year or so ago and so fell in the window of time when it was not offered, but they have announced that existing customers like myself will get this health data shortly.  I have looked up the genes responsible for Alzheimer's and checked my raw genetic data, and it looks like my risk is low but not the lowest.  Even if you have the gene for it, this is not a guarantee that you will develop the disease, it just represents a probability that you will develop it after age 85.
My dad's past medical problems and behaviors/talks I've had with him made me start suspecting long ago. It took him ten minutes to think of the word "underwear" one day and he often looses his train of thought out of nowhere. He doesn't know that I know. he doesn't discuss most of his medical stuff with us kids. He's very private and thinks that he's "protecting" us. 

I get that the anxiety can be tremendous and life changing. I however, have more anxiety over not knowing, and I want to know. I want to be able to talk with my kids before they have their own kids about the chances they might inherit this. I also am a firm believer in assisted suicide which is an option I would someday utilize, if I ever needed it. 
