My grandfather also has LBD and hearing and vision loss and I've found the best activity is to reminisce about old times or ask questions about when he was young. Talking to him about any memories that involve my grandma confuse him or make him sad but he can still recall most of his childhood memories and it makes him happy to think about those times. 


I usually avoid asking a lot of questions and instead tell him things like "You know what I was thinking about the other day? The time we went to Washington for the family reunion. That was a lot of fun" and if he remembers he participates. 


Sometimes I'll just talk to him about topics instead of specific things, like the other day I asked him if he believes in UFOs. 


It's hard to get him to do anything else and I've tried a lot, this is the one thing I can find that keeps his mood and our interactions positive.  

[deleted]
If he is already wandering then he *has* to be in a place that he can be safe, even if it is sometimes not the most comfortable option. This is when you have to consider worst case scenarios, like the guilt the person who runs over him will feel. A family member of mine was killed in such an accident. Dealing with them being a bit upset for a while at being locked up is preferable.
Those are good ideas.  Thanks!  It was hard to have conversations with him for a while but he is currently more responsive/understands what I am saying, so I will try to help him reminisce. I have to record what he says.  Yesterday my daughter handed him a Highlights High Five magazine and he started reading a story to her.  First time he ever ever read to one of the kids!  I'll see if he will do that once a visit or we'll take it when we can get it anyway.  The stories in those are really short so he can do it before his attention goes elsewhere.  
My dad wanders in his current state.  I don't know if the new meds that the Parkinson's Institute prescribed might help that or not.  He's pretty impulsive.  I will see if any homes like that exist just in case.  He likes knowing that there is a nurse around all the time.  Thanks!
I'm sorry about your experience!  How awful!  I was more wondering if there was a middle ground where he'd be monitored and not allowed to wander but had a little more perceived freedom and the ability to socialize with others outside of memory care.  I doubt that exists.  I think the program might be improving somewhat where he is but it's too soon to tell.  I don't want a scenario where he has to be trusted to not leave the facility.   I wish we lived in Amsterdam and could check out that community that was developed for people with dementia!
[deleted]
That would be great, thanks!
(I'm in California.)
