Remember that the AD sufferer will at some stage forget know how to get to the toilet and later, how to turn their body so as to sit on the toilet, how to wipe themselves clean, how to pull the chain, how to pull the toilet paper off the roll, how open their hand so the used toilet paper drops into the toilet, etc - so the problems and solutions related to toilet use and pooing are ever changing, usually for the worse. So, make sure you are never too lazy to put your thinking cap on, because not putting it on is so much worse not only for the AD sufferer, but for you too. Here are some solutions I've had to come up with that may help others: 

Kiddy locks, those ones that stop kids opening and shutting the toilet lid - Stops the AD sufferer from putting things in the toilet

Balancing something precariously on the cistern lid - stops the AD sufferer lifting and fiddling in the cistern, or putting dirty toilet paper etc in there, because as soon as they start fiddling the object crashes to the ground, stopping them and warning the carer there is a problem

Take the key out of their toilet door - can't lock themselves in

Attach a length of elastic, threaded with things that jingle, between the door and doorjam - you can hear when they try to open the door to go to the loo unattended

Use adult diapers - stops the big and dreadful mess

At night use adult diapers with a catsuit put on backwards so it cannot be taken off - stops night poos all over the place, and the catsuit stops the AD sufferer from removing the diaper

Keep a special purpose hygiene mop and bucket in the bathroom - use the mop to mop down the person when you get them in the bath to clean up after they have messed themselves, and then use it to mop out the bath, and then rinse and disinfect the mop ready for next time

If the person begins to look or behave with more agitation than usual, don't get tired of ask the basic questions (whether they need the toilet, are thirsty, in pain, hungry or tired) - stops many toilet related accidents :)

Diarise each and every poo for a while to see if there is a pattern in relation to eating - lets you institute a meal plan that suits when you can be there to attend to toilet-going. 

Work out a schedule of assisting the person to the toilet - maybe every couple of hours, and immediately on waking, and last thing at night

Always keep Imodium on hand and treat diarrhea as soon as it makes itself know - saves a lot a lot of issues

Always (always!) check out the floor where you are walking - never know when you will come across some poo. 

Stick soiled clothes, blankets etc in the washing machine and get the wash going as soon as you can even if it is the middle of the night - because there is not much worse than coming back later or the next morning to a poo cleanup half done!

An AD sufferer's behaviour around toilets is ever changing but doing the bad things (like insisting on breaking up the poo with their hands because they've forgotten how to pull the chain) does eventually pass. So don't give up hope :)


The number one thing is to set up a network of people. They can be old coworkers, his friends, her friends, family members, church members, neighbors, paid caregivers, who knows maybe boy scouts that need a badge, to give respite care. This can be sitting with them and chatting while you do laundry in the other room, taking them for icecream, letting you go to the doctor yourself, run errands, or just sit with them while you bang you head against the wall. Set them up before you need them, I have one person stop by once a week at least. I try to make it be around the same day/time so I can plan to take "me time" while they are there. This week I went for a massage, last week I took a nap. If you don't take care of yourself you will snap. 


Bed alarms are great! They also make matts you can sneak under the carpet by the front door to prevent wandering. 

I find making my day easier gives me more time to care properly which in turn makes my day easier! I do this by automating things when I can. I use one of these so I only have to sort pills once a week and can't forget a dose because of a minor catastrophe.  

Ivation Automatic Pill Dispenser, https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00FL620B0/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_awd_JcKAwbXNQMT9X

I bought a good shower bench and shower wand to make shower time easier on me, as well as a wall based shampoo soap and conditioner dispenser so I don't have to fiddle with bottles. Something like this:
https://www.amazon.com/dp/B000FGE5KA/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_awd_aiKAwb2Y8YGED


I love this help button!!!!!
LogicMark Freedom Alert Emergency Alert System -https://www.amazon.com/dp/B002IMW8O4/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_awd_ekKAwbHQ5JNY6

It works like a cordless home phone and has to be connected to a landline. You don't pay a monitor fee like most. You program it to call 4 numbers in order and then can choose to have it call 911 if the 4 people don't answer. I have it call me twice and the hired caregiver twice. When you answer it tells you it's and emergency and asks you to accept the call by pressing 5 so it isn't tricked by voicemail. It reaches way further than expected and you can speak to them through a mic and speaker in the button!

I also have to say that YouTube and Netflix are good too. Is he reminiscing about a certain time period? Pull up YouTube and find a documentary or news reel. Pull up Netflix and find an old film! Also for some reason my household can watch Simons cat animations for hours just laughing. 

I put an iPad mounted to the wall by his bed. The tv was too hard for him to use and he lost the remote constantly , but you can lock a iPad into "guided access" meaning it won't do anything but the app it's in when you start it. I lock it in Netflix and start a movie at bedtime and he happily goes to bed instead of complaining he is not tired (even though he was just snoring in his chair). He can use it easily because you just tap the movie you want to watch.  (He just chooses from the few he can see on the screen as he's not great at navigating) 

In another way to make my day easier I got a automatic pet feeder and pay to have groceries delivered (thanks Safeway!) I use the app for my pharmacy to help me keep track of refills. 


We got a cheap buzzer at Walmart for the doors. It sticks on and you can set it to either off, alarm or chime when the door is opened. We use chime during the day, so I can tell if my loved one is going outside, and alarm at night so it will wake me up. You could do that for the bedroom door, or even just put a noisy bell on the door. Baby monitors are cheap, if your loved one doesn't move things around too much- maybe hide it under the bed. 

Consider night lights to light the way to the bathroom (maybe a string of Christmas lights), a strip of rough tape leading from the bedroom to bathroom (there is tape that's rough like sandpaper on one side), removing the toilet lid and replacing the seat with a different colored one (not black), removing the waste basket, AND perhaps the best is a bedside commode (reduces opportunity for falls, mess, and wandering). A basket with wipes (throw them out, don't use flushable! It clogs up eventually), gloves, and whatever else you might need, should be kept right next to the toilet in easy reach for the carer. 

Beyond that... Don't stress about the mess. They're not doing it on purpose. Clean it up and move on. OdoBan is a gift from the gods- I buy it in gallon size from walmart and add it to all laundry, especially soiled with poop/pee. Plain white vinegar is a wonderful cleaner and deodorizer. For the floor, pine sol and straight bleach are my preferences. 
Motion detected lights so they turn on as he gets up and walks.  No hunting for light switches.  

If you don't have it yet, get a cane and walker.  Even if he's stable now it will change, at least it has for my mom.  She would get confused about what she was supposed to do and hurt her ankle before we realized what was going on.
Thank you! I did not realize that there was an automatic pill dispenser and alarm. Thats a good idea! The button is a good idea, mainly for my MIL (who's not in the best shape) so if she gets into trouble, she could call someone.
