Please keep up the exercise. If will keep him out of the nursing home longer. And the cooking is fantastic. My best advice is continue to treat him as an adult and dont fall into advice that treats him like a child that has to be entertained. It is ok as well to try new hobbies or have him do things that you like. Check r/rehabtherapy or occupationaltherapy for more ideas as well
He's too young for senior stuff; that's for sure. Hell, he's my age. What are/were his hobbies or interests, I'd say going back to his mid-30s, since I still enjoy a lot of that stuff? Depending upon what they are/were, I might be able to suggest variations that could branch off from that. Keep things familiar, but interesting. Things like board games or puzzles, unless he was into them before, seems to me to be more along the line of busy work or things you'd do to entertain a kid, which is patronizing at best. How severe is it? My mom, who's in her 80s, has vascular dementia, and it mostly affects her short-term memory and she can get easily confused, so no learning new skills. That's relatively minor from what I've been reading here about what others are experiencing with their loved ones. The important thing is to keep him engaged, so social activities like clubs or if he can still have meaningful contact with his friends. Would it be viable for you and him to make cooking dinner for your mom a project the two of you could share, maybe planning which main dishes to match with which side dishes, and the two of you could prepare the meals together, with you mainly keeping things on track?
Make sure you're providing cognitive stimulating opportunities for him: puzzles are great but can end in frustration and increase agitation. I think music is very important. I suggest finding out what he likes and use it as a tool for reminiscing. You'd be surprised at the memories that will come back to him. You can listen to records, cd, and even use YouTube to pull up videos. Maybe you can incorporate simple exercise such as dancing, in a chair, and some range of motion. 

Word puzzle books are great, simple card games, looking through family photo albums, and talking about recipes. 

Make him feel needed, give him simple tasks like organizing- mail, sorting coins, making grocery list

There is so much to do! Hope this helps

Thank you very much. All of this is new to us so I really appreciate any advice. 
Thank you! Yeah I am going to try to make our meal planning a daily routine for us. Going back to when my dad was 30, he loved to play hockey and was into electronics. Thank you very much for your advice I really appreciate it. 
Does your dad like to watch professional hockey and keep up with any league or a particular team history? My dad used to love the 49ers Superbowl Season highlight videos; maybe there's the same for professional hockey. I don't know the state of your dad's cognition and/or his long term memory, and I'm not suggesting sitting him in front of a TV or monitor and just having him watch games, but if he's able, you might investigate participatory things you and he can do, like maybe occasionally watching highlight footage together, during which you can point out particularly outstanding moments that could jog his memory, or, if not, just get him to notice and appreciate, the same with finding YouTube or other online snippets. Regarding electronics, was that stuff like new gadgets? If so, are there places you could go that feature current new or near future products that the two of you could view, like a tech museum? Again, this would be something in which the two of you would engage in together and that would be participatory. Just some ideas. Also, as part of meal planning, include grocery shopping. At 51 years old, I'm going to guess that your dad is much better able to keep up with cruising the aisles than my 80+ year old mom is.
These ideas are amazing. He love the red wings. I'll look into highlight videos or something similar to that. I wish there was some sort of tech museum nearby. I'll have to look into somethings online that maybe we can explore. He is pretty good at the grocery store. I feel like I need a list and a million hands. His patience level is very low. Thank you for your suggestions. I am so happy this sub exist. I am not alone. 
I'm happy to help. If you learn of any more of his interests, feel free to tap me for ideas, PM or whatever. Your mom might know of things that he used to be into from before you were born that might be worth investigating, stuff like music and such.
