It doesn't get better but it gets easier. Dad has been going through alzheimers for the last 5 years or so and my mother was his primary caretaker. We lost her in 2014 to cancer so his kids (me & 2 older sibs) are carrying for him. It was brutal for the first year. But it will get easier. He'll ask about her every other day instead of every day. Then twice a week. Then twice a month. I thought it would be death by a thousand paper cuts but its not quite that bad. Good luck and take care of yourselves. Check out r/caretakers if you need coping mechanisms.
The part of his brain that knows his wife died will eventually die off and he'll step off that particular loop of torment.  In the meantime, whomever has his dPOA (power of attorney for health matters), needs to ask his physician for anti-anxiety medication to help stabilize his emotional situation. 
Mum thinks dad died two weeks ago. It's been like this for nearly the last two years. Every time my brother points out to her when he died, you can see her reliving it again and again.

I think I've not actually felt the full force of dad dying. It's like it's on hold... because mum isn't dealing with it. I think of dad just being out of the room.

I do remember hearing some sad music just after he died and crying my eyes out... same music makes my eyes water now, but I don't feel so strongly.

Mum keeps talking as though he was there last week, talking to her etc. They were married for 50+ years. He brought her from Iraq to England, now she's lost the one connection she has to the past.

When she was put in the home (she had to be sectioned), I could see his world crumbling. He resisted this, tried to deny what was happening, tried to hide how bad she was... and it took its toll on him. He wasn't well himself and he died.

I think the effect on me has been the hardest to deal with. I feel like I'm lost and nothing is the same any more.

I hate going to the home seeing my mother there. It has gotten better, but...
[deleted]
In that case, I suggest your family ask the care center nurse director for advice.   Suggest that your Grandfather appears to be a good candidate for an anti-anxiety medicine and if she feels the same way, would she communicate with the physician about it?  

If the nurses aren't really involved in the assisted living resident's care, your family can simply make an appointment for your Grandfather with his doctor and take him.  If he tolerates having your Dad in the exam room, there is no need for your Dad to have dPOA to talk with the doctor during the visit. 
It's really common for the widow/widower to ask where their spouse went.   With dementia, you just don't say, "Remember? She died last year"  because it brings on shock and grief all over again.  Instead, you use "fiblets" (little lies that preserve the patient's emotions).  So, you'd say, "She went to the store" or "She's visiting so-and-so's for a week".  
