Age shouldn't haven't anything to do with nursing homes, they are needs based. Do you have any aunts or uncles or any other older adults who can help be an advocate for you guys? For instance, you should be able to apply to get your mom into Medicare because of her condition and that will help pay for a nursing home but that requires a bunch of paperwork and tricky filing. You'll want to find a home that has a memory care facility, those are the ones that will be equipped to deal with her. If you don't mind me asking, where are you located? If I have any resources that would be relevant I will share them.

I'm sorry you're going through this. The younger the person is, typically the decline is faster. It's so hard because as soon as you've adapted to new behaviors she's already slipped into a new phase. Hang in there.
Join us over at www.alzconnected.org   It's for caregivers and sufferers of all types of dementia. 
nursing home administrator here. While that is younger than the average age for a nursing home, age should not be a factor here with getting her into a facility. Most likely what needs to be looked at is the financial situation. Given that your mother is in her mid 40s, she probably has a primary payer in some type of insurance, and no secondary payer. You are taking the right steps by applying for medicaid, but your best bet is to meet with the business office at a facility, and comply with what they need to get you started on a medicaid pending case. This is typically 6 months of bank statements, any documentation on 401k, or other plans which might be a factor on getting her approved.



The best thing you can do is show the facility that you are completely compliant and timely with getting the information they need to determine if they will take on the pending case. If you show them quick and adequate cooperation, I don't imagine your will find trouble finding placement for your mother.



Finally, I'm sorry for the situation your family is going through with your mom's diagnosis. I hope this helped!
We're located in southern New Jersey. We have started the paperwork to get her on medicaid. My father passed away when I was younger and neither of my parents had siblings so its just my sister and I . Thank you
Other sister here - how fast would you say the decline is?? We've seen a significant decline in the last year... shes now hallucinating, wandering, loses her balance and falls (this all gets worse at nighttime). She was diagnosed in August 2014.  
I wish so much of the focus was not on Alzheimer's. Its seems like there aren't enough resources for the early onset dementias, we found the most help from a Huntington's group.
Most places have told us that there are really long waiting lists and also that she doesn't qualify because of her age ... I put her on "6 month" waiting lists a year and a half ago and still haven't heard anything back
While it is true that the younger you are the faster it goes, I can only speak from my own antidotal experience. My mom was diagnosed at 54 and died in August at 58. She suffered from aphasia so she completely lost her ability to speak but we believe she was hallucinating. She started having seizures late November of last year, that was really the beginning of the end. Her lack of coordination was really one of the first major things they went - for instance, a chair that was in her path would completely confuse her and she wouldn't know how to go around it. 
Is she sun downing? We don't think we ever really experienced that with my mom but it is a common issue.
