Hey, I'm a medical SLP working in LTC. I would suggest try figuring out which approach works best for her. Maybe try introducing yourself every time you see her, make sure you are in her visual field, greet with talking prior to touching, try not to make sudden movements or interruptions, use step-by-step explanation of what you are going to do or where you are going with her. Teepa Snow is an amazing occupational therapist who is very knowledgeable and experienced with this population. Watch her videos! she's brilliant. good luck! 
My elder was at times combative.  There are often reasons for this:

*  She could have been molested or sexually assaulted in the past. That may make her uncomfortable with being touched in certain ways.

* She may have chronic pain from a prior injury.

* She may have dementia with lewy bodies which can involve hallucinations

* She may be startled due to hearing or vision problems.  If she's got a bad left ear or something, approach on the right.  

Elders with dementia are like crazy folks with big holes in their brains.  Quick redirects & distractions help.  

Regarding the bedtime, that was a huge challenge for my elder.  Prior to being in a facility they were a super night owl like me.  That meant dinner around 8, staying up till 1 am usually, and sleeping till 10 or even 11 am.  The facility ran much earlier: breakfast prior to 8, dinner just before 5.  It didn't mesh well with their schedule.  If she's got a history of night owl behavior, or insomnia, or other things, perhaps her care plan needs to take that into account. Maybe she needs a different schedule than most.
Document her violent and agitated behavior. If the opportunity arises, discuss with your supervising nurse that this patient is upset, not sleeping and physically aggressive to you or other staff or other residents. Sometimes, the CNAs can humbly call to attention of nurses behavioral problems that may be improved with a med switch or use of PRN meds that are already authorized for this resident. Personally, I would snow her with Trazodone, maybe some Seroquel and an Ativan to boot. 
Is she being given Ativan, by chance?
Fairly certain that she's PRN Ativan. Unfortunately, family wants to keep her off as much meds as possible (fortunately other than her mental state, she's in fantastic health). I've talked to the supervising nurse, but without the family allowing more medications our hands are tied on sedating her.

I feel horrible because the family won't even come around because they know she can be mean and violent and they really don't want to deal with her any more than they absolutely have to (their words).

However, I will document her behavior. I've been trying to find a source of her aggression, whether it's a trigger phrase or... I don't know.
She is being given Ativan PRN. I'm not sure what her other meds are, but I know she's not on too many. Her family doesn't like medications...
Sounds like you are doing all you can. If her family is going to be that way, the general course of things is that she will just continue to be an abusive nuisance (yes, I think healthcare workers have a right to go to work and not be hit, kicked, punched and spit on etc) until she pushes someone over the edge and gets sent out for a med evaluation. Or she'll get herself worked up enough that she eventually crashes somewhere and breaks a hip, which will fast track her out of your hair for a while. 
My FIL has a severe reaction to Ativan. It makes him aggressive, violent and hallucinate. We got him off of it and onto some another dementia meds and he's a completely different person.

He freaked out and got kicked out of one place and we found out that they he had been prescribed it, again. They said they didn't give it to him, but after we made a fuss about it, he settled down. Pretty sure he had been given some, again. 

Might be worth looking into...
I feel like she'll get hurt pretty soon. She falls relatively often even if it is just slipping off the front of a seat or couch. It hurts to see a family member not wanting to see their family, but I understand that this patient is most likely not the person they always knew.
Sad that her family doesn't care to allow for more medication management of her agitation. But sometimes even that doesn't help or makes things worse. Bottom line is you are dealing with someone who likely has a brain like Swiss cheese. It is like taking care of an agitated, osteoporotic toddler. Just do the best you can and don't become too emotionally involved or take it personally. If you stay in the field of LTC, either as a CNA or nurse, she will be one of many for you. 
