This is really sweet. Alzheimer's affects not only memory, but how the brain functions, processes info and sensory input, and decreases overall function and cognition. It can create a lot of anxiety and agitation. 

It depends on how advanced she is. I'm really impressed she can do cross words! Definitely encourage that. Get her a book of them, so she doesn't have to wait for the ones in the paper. 

-  Photo albums, whether physical or digital picture frame. 

- Plants to brighten up her room.

-  A fish tank can be great stimulation, and they're low maintenance. 

-  If she is the nurturing sort, a baby doll and/or lifelike stuffed animal may be nice and comforting. 

-  She can look through books of photography (something like this: http://www.amazon.com/Ireland-Visual-Journey-Around-Counties/dp/0717157431/ref=sr_1_4?ie=UTF8&qid=1452635395&sr=8-4&keywords=Photography+Ireland), for something she used to be interested in. 

-  A fiddle box, filled with little items and trinkets that she might like (decorative little makeup mirrors, a pretty ribbon, embroidered handkerchief, etc) 

-  get a big bag of buttons, have her sort them by color or shape 

-  Nature documentaries, as they don't have a plot but are very pretty and visually stimulating 

-  Audio books, if she likes being read to 

-  Pandora station (make one) with music from her teenage years, adolescence, adulthood. If she had a favorite singer or group, play that. 

-  if she is/was religious, church on TV or audio casts/pod casts (something like Joel Osteen, etc) 

Find out from family and friends what she used to enjoy doing, and head in that direction. 
My grandma has more severe Alzheimer's I think than yours, but even when it wasn't as bad she enjoyed coloring in coloring books. You can get all sorts of nice, less kiddish books now too, so we enjoy just doing that together. Also if you can find tangram puzzles, my grandma really likes those. My grandma also used to enjoy watching television or movies from when she was younger. Now she can't really follow the plots anymore but she still enjoys it a bit. I definitely suggest music that they like. I don't know if it's been studied but whenever I put on music from when my grandma was young, she really seems to improve and can carry a conversation better than without it. My grandma has always loved shopping and general girly things, which I love too so we just talk about those things. Maybe you can find something small in common with her. I find we don't really talk about much as a lot of it gets repeated or off track really quickly so I wouldn't worry about too many awkward silences or general like not socially normal conversational habits. She likely won't notice. 

Anyway, it's really sweet of you to want to help her enjoy her time more. Sometimes it really is just very simple things that make all the difference. Good luck!
my grandmother is probably in the mid stages of it; as of a few months ago she cannot place who I am anymore, except when my mother is around or if she comes to my house. When she is in a particular stink, or upset for whatever reason, Ill pull out a photo album and we'll look through it, and we'll reminisce about the past and such. I don't know how far along your grandmother is, but most of the time, their long term memory is still there and is one of the last things to go. I find talking about the past somehow (as I do through pictures) usually is a great trick. Good luck, and remember, you are not alone in this struggle.
Old magazines. My wife can't read anymore but loves to look at the pictures. There's an antique store near our house that sells old Look and Life magazines from the '60s for $2 each. She'll spends hours being entertained looking at these. 
Music/musical programs she might be familiar with. 
Thank you so much for this! I took in a photo album the other day and and we spent an hour going through it together. We've also gotten her a TV too, and my mom is putting together a trinket box. :)
That's awesome! Best wishes to you all.
