The very real possibility that she might become paranoid enough to harm your father should be brought up with her doctor, as well as the wandering. With both those, she could be committed involuntarily (or "sectioned", depending on your country). The aggression can become very bad quickly.My aunt ended up in jail.
If you haven't already, you might want to talk to her doctor about options for managing paranoia, aggression, etc., with psychiatric medication.

Anti-depressants and/or anti-psychotics can make a world of difference in her happiness, contentment, peace of mind.

Good luck...
I did a quick search and found [this kids watch](http://www.amazon.com/Waterproof-Babysiter-Compatible-Geo-fencing-Smartphones/dp/B01125XW9W/ref=pd_sim_sbs_107_2?ie=UTF8&dpID=51g%2BQuo5%2B9L&dpSrc=sims&preST=_AC_UL160_SR160%2C160_&refRID=1TR2FQY6J68JRYEM2KW5). One feature I liked was the "Electric fence" "After adding an electric fence name, you can set a fence with the watch as the centre and with a radius of 100 to 5000. The APP Client will receive an alarm when the watch enters or exits the fence." Maybe he could slip this in her purse instead.

[This is a whole page filled with tracking devices](http://www.alzheimers.net/8-8-14-location-devices-dementia). One of them goes in their shoe.

As a simple not tech solution, put her information in all of her clothing. Like a kid going off to camp. That way if the high tech solution fails the cops can look inside her coat, shirt, or pants and find out who she is and who to call.
Project Lifesaver is a program run through many local police departments across the country. The sheriff or a deputy will fit her with a bracelet or anklet that is difficult to remove. It has a GPS in it, and if she wanders the police will be able to locate her. 

I use Pocket Finder. It's a bit chunky, about the size of the palm of your hand. Does your loved one habitually carry a certain item, like keys, or a purse? My loved one wanders too, but always brings her purse. If so, you might be able to find a way to hide or secure it to that item. Like this incident you described, it's not a foolproof strategy because they might not bring it- but it's an idea. I charge it twice weekly, and re-sew it into the lining of her purse each time. There are different power settings- to save battery, you can put it in airplane mode and just activate to tracking mode when you need to locate her. It is VERY accurate., quick and user friendly. I have used it three times to find my loved one. I think it was like $130 to buy the device, and $13/mo for a service plan. Worth it. We will keep it until my loved one is immobile/bed bound.

At this stage in the disease, please be aware that all sharp items should be locked up safely. Scissors, knives, garage and garden tools- someone with dementia who isn't thinking clearly could injure themselves or someone else. If she has the Project Lifesaver anklet, you'll need to make sure she can't remove it.
From my research and what I've seen posted, they make them but they are pretty expensive. One of the best solutions I've seen is buying a cheap phone with GPS and getting a cheap plan and installing a parental app that can track the phone. I don't know what the app is called but from what I understand parents use them to track their kids with the GPS in the phone. This only works if they keep the phone on them, I've heard of sowing the phone into there pocket but keeping it charged would be though and they would have to wear the same pants. 
Can you guys camouflage the doors?  Add an alarm to the door so he'll know if she leaves?
I think Seroquel, Trazodone and Ativan would be much more effective at helping keep track of your MIL than a GPS. The logic runs to me that if she needs a GPS, what she really needs a boatload of meds and/or to live in a lockdown memory care unit. 
Thank you for saying that. I genuinely worry about him, but I'm not sure what they will do. My husband's siblings are very against any idea of her in a facility, even temporarily. We are getting together this weekend to discuss options and indoor after this they will realize it is not just about her husband's safety, but hers as well. 
Thank you for that suggestion. They lost their medical insurance and are in the process of getting it back. I will bring this up ASAP. 
Thank you for the resources and suggestions. I am going to talk to my father in law about adding her name to clothes. The insole GPS is actually one I'm considering. I don't see many reviews on it.m, but it will probably be her best bet. If she can remove it I'm almost positive she will. 
Thank you, I did find some information in Project Lifesaver and will call them in the morning. 

I'm pretty sure my FIL has secured anything dangerous because she has threatened him in the past, but when I speak to him tomorrow I will ask him to go back over the house. It's a great suggestion at this point. After the wandering episode the other day she is even more out of sorts than normal. 
This is actually what my FIL currently does. He keeps it in her purse because she doesn't like to even leave the room without the purse. Unfortunately she left it behind this morning when she left. The wearable devices are very expensive though, so I guess I'm just wondering if it's actually worth the cost. 

In the meantime I will talk to him about trying to figure out a way to keep the phone on her instead of her purse. 
We are definitely adding an alarm to the door. 
I agree that it is time for medication, and we are pushing for an emergency appointment with her doctor to re-evaluate. The GPS is for the more immediate moment and for peace of mind from now on. Even on medication, dementia patients sometimes wander off just from confusion. Now that it's happened once we want to make sure we are doing everything possible to avoid her wandering off on her own for any reason. 
> My husband's siblings are very against any idea of her in a facility, even temporarily.

Sadly when most people think of putting a parent in other living arrangements, they think of nursing homes.

I have a close elderly family member who is in a care facility at the moment that only houses dementia patients. She has her own room and is able to use her own furniture (couch, tv, bed, pictures, etc) so it is more like an apartment. It is almost like a small community.
Do you know for sure what type of dementia she has?  I have been reading about Lewy Body Dementia and it sounds like the drugs really do have an effect on the quality of life of someone with dementia and can help lessen some of this behavior if they are correctly diagnosed and given the corrects medication.  At least one of you should read about the medications and get to know it and any changes in her behavior to make sure its going ok.  Doctors rely on accurate representations of the patient's behavior.  My father was never put on a memory medication for 5 years and is only now getting it.  They also changed his meds to reflect Lewy Body dementia rather than Parkinson's and its really made a huge difference.  
My other advice though if improved medication does not cut it is to get her to a place where she will be safe.   
A lock box (like the fire proof kind you can use for documents) might work, so your FIL can still access those things when needed (knives, scissors, meds etc).

I'm sorry to hear all this. My loved one has gotten agitated and physical with me twice. I made myself a "three strikes" deal- if she lays a hand on me ever again, I'm done and out. I think sometimes it's hard to admit when we, as caregivers, are in over our head. I actually stepped way back and now only see my LO 1-2x/week, and it's been a huge relief to my mental and physical health. Maybe your FIL needs to make a similar deal, draw some sort of line- he does not have to live with physical abuse, whether the abuser is of sound mind or not. She can't necessarily help or control how she's behaving, but he doesn't have to suffer as well. There have been many, many instances in which the person with dementia and/or the caregiver have both suffered serious physical harm, as a result of agitation/violence, stress, and an unsafe environment. I think sometimes the best, kindest thing to do is admit when it's too much. For what it's worth, the top reasons for someone to be placed in memory care are: agitation & violence, wandering and incontinence. 

If her behavior has changed or gotten much worse quickly, it is absolutely worth getting her checked for a UTI. UTIs are common with dementia because they tend to not wipe properly, and the infection can wreak all sorts of havoc. It's a very well known connection to behavioral disturbances and violence in dementia. It can really add a lot of confusion and paranoia, and sudden behavioral changes. It might also just be how the disease will progress for her. 

 I know you said they don't have health insurance right now, but it's past the time for medication. He can call 911 or bring her to the emergency room if it gets bad, and they will have to treat her. If he refuses to bring her home, then they have no option other than to keep her, or they can send her to a geriatric psychiatric unit which will stabilize her with medication. If they are having financial difficulty, she might be eligible for Medicaid, which is actually a good thing with dementia. Medicaid covers the cost of long term care in a nursing home/memory care facility. 

There's no easy answers. ((Hugs)) I belong to a wonderful support group on Facebook that you guys should check out, especially your FIL if he uses a computer. It's called Dementia Caregivers support group. It's an amazing source of info and support.
I don't have any experience with them so I don't know if they are worth it or not, but I think if they have the right health insurance then it might cover some of the cost. 
I don't unfortunately. Until now my in laws approach to this has mostly been to ignore it or make excuses. This is the first time she's been in a situation where they can no longer shrug it off. She was diagnosed two years ago, but is not on medication currently because at the time she refused it and no one has brought it back up since. Now they realize this was a mistake, but what's done is done and we need to start the process over again. 

Her children are very against having her anywhere besides home, but this is something I am going to discuss personally with her husband as I think he has a more realistic view of what the future holds. I will certainly urge him to go back over the house and make sure any thing that can pose a threat is hidden away in the meantime. 

I appreciate the advice. When they go to see the doctor I will ask my husband to speak with the doctor about the specific type of dementia she has. I do know they were told it could be hereditary. Her mother and sister both had dementia before they passed away. I mostly remember the doctor saying this because my sister in law was devastated and looking into possible screening for herself.  
I am definitely going to check into that Facebook group. My FIL doesn't use Facebook, but my husband will join in to share resources with him. And thank you for the great suggestions. My MIL has a very hard time with the bathroom, so I will ask my FIL to bring this up next time they see the doctor and to learn what the warning signs of a UTI are. I am going to talk with my husband about picking up a lock box tomorrow for him, so that he can start keeping things that might pose a danger to her safely away. 

You brought up a lot of things we hadn't thought of. I appreciate the thought out reply. We are having a family meeting tomorrow to figure out the next steps, so you've given me lots to talk over with everyone. 
Best of luck to you and your family!  
Thank you!
