I don't recommend locking a dementia sufferer in, like others have. If there was a fire, it would be horrible. 

I know it sucks, but maybe you should look into an assisted living facility that specializes in memory care. They have different levels of restrictiveness, so it doesn't feel like a full-blown dementia wing where residents are very far gone.
https://www.google.com/?gws_rd=ssl#q=Medical+alert+systems+for+Dementia

The above link is a Goggle search for Medical Alert Systems for Dementia (US .coms). This may be a good place to start.  
This is a link to Go Walk Talk Service to checking on people remotely. Found this at r/Alzheimer's.

https://vimeo.com/152579331


[deleted]
I keep an eye on my husband's uncle who lives with us by using an iPad using Ustream to stream t. Certainly not to the extent you guys need though. We've also installed doors that have locks on the INSIDE. So we can lock him IN. 
I think your best bet is to change the locks so they can only be unlocked with a key and then don't give him access to it. This will piss him off royally but it will keep him from wandering. 
Great suggestion. Wonder where you could get something like that?
Terrible idea. You will lose the trust of your loved one, and you will destroy the relationship you have. 
I'm sorry, u/elsynkala, u/sarahmakesyoustrong, and u/jalfrezzi, but these suggestions that involve making it impossible for him to get out, or deceiving him so he doesn't know how to exit are simply negligent. If he's at the point where he needs supervision to not leave and possibly get hurt, you really need to think about another living arrangement for him, whether it's with a family member, or in an assisted living or nursing home. You wouldn't leave a child locked in a house, or unaware of how to get out. Doing the same with a person with dementia is unconscionable, in my opinion. 

u/bigdiq, You say you have been trying to keep him in his home as long as possible. I really think you need to come to grips with the idea that his need for constant supervision so he doesn't wander and get hurt, indicates that you have reached that point. I know how difficult it is to reach this point, but if that's where things are, you have to make the responsible decision. If I knew someone was locking a person with dementia alone in their home, or tricking them into not knowing how to get out, I would report them to adult protective services.


I'm not the original poster. You may want to send your comments to the OP. 

I will say the each and every situation is different. Some people are still in the early stages of the disease and refuse to move somewhere else or have someone stay with them.  They want their independence as long as possible and they so desperately need for their wishes to be respected. So you have to try your best to respect their wishes. Is it an ideal situation? No, but this is the situation you find yourself in through no fault of your own or the person with Alzheimer's. Calling APS could be the cruelest thing to do this this gentlemen. He may not have much money for in-home care. Like I said, every family situation is different, and everyone is doing the best they can do. If you have ever been personally touched by this disease, or know of anyone who has, then I'm sure you realize the last thing anyone needs is judgment. Please be kind.
You're completely right. We had to switch out my parents locks for key only locks but my mom was never home alone. If he can't be trusted alone then he shouldn't be alone. 
On that same note - I've said it a lot in this sub but I think it's important so I'll continue to do so. Moving my mom into a nursing home seemed like the worst thing we could do until we did it and then we were kicking ourselves for waiting as long as we did. It was absolutely the best call and we should've put her in a facility with people equipped to deal with her much sooner than we did.
As a longtime dementia caregiver, using something like decals to keep someone with Alzheimer's safe is very acceptable, and frankly a very good idea.

Per my pervious post:
I will say the each and every situation is different. Some people are still in the early stages of the disease and refuse to move somewhere else or have someone stay with them. They want their independence as long as possible and they so desperately need for their wishes to be respected. So you have to try your best to respect their wishes. Is it an ideal situation? No, but this is the situation you find yourself in through no fault of your own or the person with Alzheimer's. Calling APS could be the cruelest thing to do this this gentlemen. He may not have much money for in-home care. Like I said, every family situation is different, and everyone is doing the best they can do. If you have ever been personally touched by this disease, or know of anyone who has, then I'm sure you realize the last thing anyone needs is judgment. Please be kind.
Thanks, I didn't realize I wasn't responding to the OP. I understand there are different circumstances, and I do know first hand how difficult it is. 

It is my understanding from the original post, that the OP is talking about ways to monitor his grandad, when he's home alone. If I am misunderstanding, then I apologize. I was responding to suggestions made within this context.

However, there is a reason that it is *illegal* to lock a person with dementia in their home and leave them alone in many countries, no matter what stage of their disease. If a person does not have resources, in the U.S., they can get Medicaid benefits which will pay for assisted living and some home care (in some states) and nursing home care in all. My MIL is in a very nice nursing home that is covered by Medicaid. She received home care assistance through Medicaid when she was still able to be alone at home.

I'm guessing that the OP is in the UK, or Australia, as indicated by the use of the word "mum." Australia subsidizes care, depending on what one can afford, and I believe coverage is provided in the UK under the NHS. 
Thanks for the clarification. I feel the same way about moving my MIL to a nursing home. She's doing so much better now that she has regular, caring interaction. At home, she was getting repeated UTI's, was very anxious, and started having trouble with activities of daily living. Everyone is different, so there's no guarantee the move won't be more difficult for some than for others. Still, the staff at her nursing home have been very caring, and kind, and we've learned a lot about how to help her live in her new cognitive world from them.
>using something like decals to keep someone with Alzheimer's safe is very acceptable, and frankly a very good idea.

ONLY when someone is home with the individual, not when they are home alone. Leaving anyone who does not have the cognitive ability to understand where they are and wanders away from their home, locked in a residence or confusing them so they can't get out, and alone, is neglect. 
[deleted]
I understand how decals would be useful, within the context of a supervised environment. However, the OP is asking about remote monitoring of an individual who wanders. No matter what stage of his disease, it would NEVER be appropriate to lock him in his residence, or use a decal to confuse him about how to exit, when he is home alone.
[deleted]
Deceiving a cognitively disabled individual so they don't understand how to exit, and then leaving them alone, is NEVER ok. It doesn't matter whether they are locked in and cannot get out, or they are tricked to think there is no way out. Both create the same dangerous situation. It does not provide him with safety if there is a fire and he cannot figure out how to exit. It can also create confusion and anxiety, which need to be managed by a caregiver who is *present*.
[deleted]
