Do they need them? Sometimes behavioral issues can arise as the result of pain which the individual has become unable to communicate to others. Could be worth investigating this route with your health professional. It isn't always thought of at first as the individual may say they are not in pain when asked. Trials have been done in small ways in the UK with some success. 
I don't think they would do much other than tranquilize the patient. They would either fall asleep or become even more disoriented. 
My mom's anxiety has recently been treated with meds and this seemed to leave her more agitated or asleep.  We've come up with a list of activities to keep her engaged which has dramatically helped to decrease her anxiety.  We have a one - on-one caregivers situation which makes this much more likely.  Anything that relates to a highly familiar task in your loved ones past is an activity to try.  Holding a realistic,  sleeping doll,  household chores,  folding laundry,  past hobbies are some of the things mom can still do if encouraged and helped (without regard to accuracy).  
My SO had some improvement with Venlafaxine. Brand name Effexor XR. While his agitation is not gone, he is less prone to outbursts. We do use lorazepam (brand name Ativan) when he does have outbursts but it is less often than before the Venlafaxine. 
We use a very low dose of Seroquel/quetiapine (25mg) daily. This has honestly significantly improved my dad's aggression (diagnosed 6 years ago, late stage) and we give it to him at nighttime so any sedative side effects will just help him sleep. We don't notice any sedative effects during the day. I would say if your dad's aggression is becoming hard to manage, then trialing a low dose of an antipsychotic is probably the next step. 
Source: father has late stage dementia and I am in my 4th year of pharmacy school
I know of a lady with Alzheimer's that has been on Haloperidol (Haldol) for about a year. She started to have psychotic breaks. It also calms her behavioral issues some. She has only had minimal psychotic breaks since on Haldol, whereas, she would have them much more often without the Haldol.
We have traveled that route. He has been checked for UTIs and other infections. He has back pain, but his mobility is ok now, so that's likely not it. Professionals say they have eliminated other sources of the aggression beyond the aggression often seen in Alzheimer's patients.
That would be my concern. It sounds like this is being recommended in a lot of Alzheimer's cases and I'm curious to hear some real-life stories.
My dad has already started to sleep a lot more. If I'm honest with myself, he has declined a lot in the past 3 weeks and I can definitely see more of a case for help with his aggression. My dad was the mildest person you'd ever meet, so this is extremely out of character, but I know it's a trademark of the disease. 

Thanks for your input.
So out of curiosity how far apart are agitation and outbursts in terms of intensity? My dad can get agitated, but can be redirected. I often think the outbursts come from unchecked agitation (ie, argument between two residents), so if the agitation isn't decreased, I'm not sure the aggression will be. 

But this is excellent info to have, exactly the kind of info I was looking for, thank you.
I believe this is what they want to give me dad as well. The idea about nighttime is very good as well, as lately he's been prone to night wandering, and the last couple of outbursts have been 3-4 am. 

My father was also diagnosed around 6 years ago, I'd say he's medium to late stage now, recent sharp decline. 

How long has your dad been on it? How long would you recommend staying on? I've been seeing use beyond 12-18 months is not recommended, and while I realize Alzheimer's is terminal, my dad is physical very healthy (he's a few months away from 80 and takes no medication other than vitamins). 

Ugh. I hate this disease.
Most homes drug the hell out of patients when possible. They are over worked and understaffed sadly, so its the easiest way to ensure patients don't harm themselves. My father seems to be deteriorating quite quickly, but there is not much that can be done.
They are definitely related. It doesn't happen regularly anymore, but outbursts only come on agitated days. He only seems to get agitated on days when he is very confused. I attribute the agitation to the anxiety which I assume is brought on by the confusion. The outbursts tend to happen towards the end of the day (also possibly sun downing kicking in as well) on confused days. 
My dad has been on it for the last 5 months. And it took maybe a month for it to have a significant impact on his aggressive episodes. It can be used for longer than 12-18 months, however the effectiveness of the medication could decrease as the disease progresses with the possibility of increasing the dose of the medication. But given that your dad is elderly there's always that debate of risks vs benefits with medications. My dad is 53 so quetiapine could also have a different outcome in your dad given the age difference. Ultimately the decision is up to you whether or not you want to try out an anti-psychotic. I would push for low dose, most importantly.
Yes, this disease is downright terrible. Feel free to continue to message me if you have any questions (especially about medications) or need to rant :)
I'd like to think this isn't purely a knee jerk response on their part. We're in an awkward situation where my father is is physically healthy and strong apart from the Alzheimer's. So when he's agitated, he is a concern. But I'm deeply concerned about the state he might be in. Thanks for your input.
The doctor has been very straightforward about how little is known and how varied the results are. My concern is that 12-18 months and beyond can have long term side effects. I don't want to introduce something new to the situation. On the other hand, we've run out of options.

Your dad is so young. That's a tough load for you. It seems like I'm always ranting, but a lot of people don't really get it, or the topic makes them uncomfortable. So I may take you up on that, and likewise if you need to rant at me. :-)


Well to be honest, my room mate WAS a care aide dealing with these kind of patients. Sadly he removed himself off the hospital floor as dealing with a physically healthy male patient with dementia, he injured himself severely.
And I don't blame him. I completely understand their concerns about safety and I share them. I hope your roommate was ok.
