I am truly sorry about your mother. I have had two family members (Grandmothers) with dementia and it is very hard to see someone you love loose who they are. I seen my mother go through these same feelings as you with my Grandmother. Of course, my Grandfather was a very good man and nothing like you speak of. He died when I was in my teens, but he is someone I most strive to be like to this day. First, you should not blame yourself for your mother. It is not your fault. My Grandmother lived with my parents for seven years and it took a huge toll on them giving 24/7 care to her. Yes, you should try to visit your mother as much as you can, but you should not blame yourself because she chose to stay. It is not your fault. 
You are not a bad son, you are an amazing son who did all you could, but she loved that man and there was nothing you could do to change that

I am so sorry for what's going on, but don't you ever blame yourself


It sounds like you did all you could to get her out of that situation, much more than many others would have done (offering to help her through school when you were a student yourself, offering her a home when you were newly married), but she could not accept because she had been so conditioned by her husband's abuse.

If I were you, I'd be upset with the unfairness of dementia striking her, or upset with your father for putting her through years of trauma that left her feeling powerless to escape, not with myself. What has happened to your mother is tragic, but it's not your fault.

I'm sorry for what you're going through.
The original poster has indicated that this is a tough love thread. Please remember to abide by all rules found in the sidebar with the exception that you can be more blunt.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/confession) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I'll try to remember that. Thank you for replying.
Thank you
Thank you.
