Very interesting question. I've been on a journey for the past three years to understand dementia and Alzheimer's. It has been very difficult to get definitive, unbiased, non PC answers to so many of issues facing people with Alz., as well as, family's dealing with dementia. It's been like running through a never ending maze.  

From what I have learned, I will give it a go at your questions.

>Do you think people with AD really understand their deficit? 

For most people in the earlier stages, they do have a limited understanding of their deficit. The exception to this would be doctors or people that have been exposed to Alz. through work or family. These people, in the earlier stages, would have a very good understanding of their deficit, but even with this understanding, they would not be able to control their deficits (symptoms). Once the disease progresses, everyone eventually loses their ability to understand their deficits and much more. Some quicker than others. It just depends on the person.

>Do family and friends understand what it's like? 

If you mean do family and friends understand what it's like to have Alz. then the answer would be a resounding NO. But, there are a lot of very knowledgeable people like Teepa Snow who is an occupational therapist, that has an excellent clinical understanding of Alz. She has made many dementia caregiver training videos. I believe the key to caring for someone with Alz. is a lot of love, a lot of patients, very thick skin, and to educated yourself as much as possible. Also, learn to live in their world. Don't expect or try to get them to live in your world. Even if you are able to pull all this off, you will still make hundreds of mistakes. 

>Do they empathies and try to adjust to the problems people with AD have or just get frustrated and shy away? 

Without a doubt, most get frustrated and shy away or just disappear. Though I think in most cases it's not that people don't empathize, they just do not understand, and that's scary for most people. Through my experience with my mother that has Alz. and talking to many others that care for family with Alz. this is  extremely common everywhere. Most of the time, other than a couple close family members, and if lucky maybe a friend or two, everyone else just fades away. 

>what kind of awareness or education does the public need about AD? 

**As much as possible.** In approximately 20 years 1 out of every 2 people over the ages of 80 to 85 will have some type of progressive dementia. Most will have Alz. This is one half of all people over the ages of 80 to 85. This will be that global pandemic that we have all been warned about for many years.

The only bright side to all this is, there are thousands of scientist, and companies looking for therapies to treat dementia. Some of the leading scientist working in this field seem to think in about 20 year time there should be effect drugs and therapies available to drastically slow down the progression of the disease with early detection.    
my thoughts:
1. My mom doesn't understand her deficits, but she knows and feels very confused most of the time.
2. I don't think most family members have even a baseline understanding of AD when the process begins. and some never get it.
3. It's hard to spend time with someone with AD as the illness progresses. Listening to the same 3 sentences over and over is tiresome. Listening to the rants, being berated, etc etc is hard too. and then there's the moment in time when I'm no longer remembered (long past the time of being loved by my mom) and then it becomes easier to stay away because 'I' am busy and she doesn't know me and she doesn't care if I come. So my needs become more important.
4 Education?  We need to teach people how important memory is to all of us. Without it, we can't make decisions, never mind good ones. We can't love or heal or pray or .... take your pick. Our limits are personal and dependent on each individual but they're always there, once the memory goes. Additionally, we all think our memories are accurate.  After spending lots of time with my mom, I know she believes everything she says to me, but because her memories aren't intact, she's repeatedly in error and doesn't realize it.
Greetings!
I hope I'm not being a pest.
I’m a graduate student from Indiana University of Indianapolis. I’m trying to find people who are caring for loved ones with memory issues (or have in the past 5 years). When I looked at the current apps/tools  available to you, I found that they make a lot of assumptions about what you need. I want to change that. 


I’m hoping that through talking to you for 15-60 minutes, depending on your availability, I could learn more and we could discuss what your ideal technology would do (e.g. let you know what resources are available in your location, whether you would be interested in 5 minute meditation sessions).


If you or someone you know would be able to do this, it would be greatly appreciated! Please consider helping me to create a tool that could better service you and help me understand what technology can do to better serve you.


Sincerely,

Tiffany McIntire

Email: tkmcinti@iupui.edu
Thanks for taking the time to reply. You mention people just don't understand. What do you think could help people understand?
Thank you for that insight. I think you hit on something really important about making people aware of what memory actually means to us. Your description conveys how it's not just remembering dates and faces--it's so much more than that.
Your insight is right on....especially how hard it is to spend time with someone with AD. I take care of my wife, and it is interesting to watch how friends and even some family members fade away because they don't know what to do or how to interact. Sad to watch even the grandchildren fade away because they find it difficult to have a conversation with grandma. She no longer makes cookies, plays games or sits and reads to them.  I understand, just find it another sad outcome of the disease. I think the caregiver has to recognize and accept the increasing loneliness for the patient (and caregiver) that can come with the disease. The caregiver has to double their effort to overcome this peripheral dilemma. 
Awareness and education. But even then, most people will not understand until they come face to face with caring for someone with this disease. And sadly, I believe that's the way it will always be. Alz. is a slowly progressing, horribly disgusting, nightmare of a disease. It's your worst nightmare come true. All the awareness and education cannot change that, and it's only human nature to run from nightmares.
it is difficult.  My heart goes out to you - I can't imagine trying to care for someone with AD.  I hope your kids and grandkids come to visit you - never mind your wife.  she's beyond visiting but you're not and you need to see the ones you love.  I hope that doesn't sound harsh, but please, tell them...otherwise they won't know.  they can't know, since they haven't lived this pain like you have.
That's a really powerful way to express it. Thanks for taking the time to reply. 
