In my opinion, it is the kindest thing you can do for your loved one with dementia. How many times should my FIL have to be reminded that his wife, his parents, his friends, everyone he's ever looked up to in the world is dead. Most of the time he thinks he's 19 or 26 or sometimes as old as 50 (he's 86). 

I know how much anguish it caused him when we had to take away his car keys because he was a danger to himself and others. He felt totally emasculated, helpless, angry, and worthless. Never underestimate how much a car and the independence it represents means to a man. When he asks where his car is, what good will it do him to know we took away the keys after a state trooper called us in the middle of the night after pulling over what he thought was a drunk driver, 2 hours away from his home, and spent the rest of the night at a hospital somewhere out in the middle of nowhere while we drove across the state to get him? If we lead him to believe his car is in the shop and that's why we picked him up for lunch, at least he gets to keep his dignity and pride.

He won't remember the truth. He won't remember the lie. 10 minutes later he's asking the very same question, as if for the first time. I was raised to tell the truth, and I usually do. But to tell this man how things really are, is just cruel. 

Having said that, there are times he knows he's old and that he has a bad problem. Those times are fewer and farther between these days, but when he understands his age and is somewhat present and wants to know what's up, we tell him about his memory problem, how it's not uncommon for people who have been on this earth a long time, we talk about where he lives and why, and it's not so hard to realize his parents have been dead for decades because most 86-year-olds don't have living parents.
I'm guessing your coworkers have little experience dealing with dementia patients.  Trying to explain the complexities of the situation to someone of diminished capacity would just frighten and frustrate them. 
It's kinder to them, and easier for both of us.
A total necessity for their sake and the sake of the caregiver. Has your co-worker ever cared for anyone with dementia?
For mine and my grandmother's sake, whatever she says goes. We've had some interesting conversations for sure. 
your co-workers have opinions but obviously no experience with dementia patients.  My mother can't hold a thought for more than a second, so trying to explain something to her is ridiculous.  Smile, agree and carry on, that's all you can do.  

I agree. I tried to explain it to my coworkers, but they didn't understand. They still feel like it's lying.
They're morons. Let them be responsible for someone with dementia for a month. Then see if they think it's lying. Sorry.... my mother has Alzheimer's and we kindly lie often. We also tell the truth but we don't argue the truth when her mind is elsewhere. It's the kindest thing to do. 
Don't need a whole month. Like maybe 2 days. 
