[deleted]
Similar problem here, what we ended up doing was to write a short note to his doctor, then on visit in doctors office, he was told the alcohol is interfering with medication. 

Also, we told father his vision was too bad to drive anymore. You could get doctors help with this too. 
You can actually buy non-alcoholic whiskey. You might need to order it online, but it could serve as a last resort if he is determined to drink. 
We are having this problem as well. Father just diagnosed with Dementia this week. Which after reading this post, has explained why he drinks the way he has been. He usually starts with a beer at 9 am and then keeps going. But it may be due to him not remembering he has had so much along with being an alcoholic before... 
Just take it away from where he keeps it and he will forget about it very soon. One of the few bits of silver lining to the disease. Smokers also have an incredibly easy time quitting. 
I had the same problem. I locked it up and give him his "ration" each evening. Works for us. But he doesn't try to leave. I started with watering and cutting down slowly. He had looped to drinking quite a bit. Cutting of suddenly can cause problems. If he has been drinking a lot, and or has been eating a lot of sugar, get his potassium and b12 levels checked. 
Didn't know about whiskey flavouring, have to see if I can get any here in Melbourne, Aus
Hmm, hadn't thought of that approach.  Thanks for the suggestion
Thank you, will take a look at that..
A follow up - we tried nonalcoholic red wine and it turned out great!  

He can't tell the difference and feels comfortable to have his drink.  And as a direct result the amount of arguments and aggression at night has dropped from nearly every night to once every couple of weeks which is such an improvement in our quality of life...

Thanks guys!
[deleted]
You can use the non-alcoholic whiskey to water down the real whiskey. Then when he adjusts to the different flavor, completely switch him to the non-alcoholic.
Fair enough, good thoughts. 
