Here's the thing.. first off, you have to know that with dementia it is absolutely no good asking the person any question at all, even one that depends on memory from 10 seconds or so ago, let alone from 5 minutes, a day or week ago. 

And second, it is absolutely pointless having any rules at all because they don't remember the rules. At all!

Once I understood these thing, and it took a long long time, I reorganized the environment and schedules so that I need not ask questions and need not have rules, things became much simpler. 

Like, the rule, "Do not close all the doors all the time!" was substituted by my tying doors open. Like, "Don't feed your food to the dogs!" was solved by putting the dogs out and then having my meals with them later. 

So, my survival guide would be, "Whatever it takes, no questions and no rules :)"
My husband and I care for my grandfather. He is in the late stages of dementia.

Step 1: Take a dementia/Alzheimer's Association training class if available in your area. This is such a hard thing to do; emotionally, mentally, and sometimes just because of the sheer amount of time. However, it will really help with 2 things: Realize you're not the only one going through this. There are tons of people who go through these same issues, and some have found things that work; but they will also tell you what DOESN'T work. You will have tons of "eureka!" moments. Additionally, you will understand the disease a lot better. Once you understand the disease, it makes communication A LOT easier.
You need to not feel guilty about going out and gaining some space away.  Is there anyone helping you with her?
I feel like the people in this community should pool our collective knowledge and make a more in depth wiki for r/dementia. What you just said took me way too long to figure out on my own. Man oh man did it make my life easier. 
Great recommendations.
most of the questions i ask are about how she feels so that i can give her suitable pills if needed, or perhaps food, or do something else. i know i shouldn't and can't rely on questions about things she did—she doesn't remember taking a pill after 2 minutes of taking one—but when she says she's not feeling well yet refuses to say at least something about where it hurts.. that's so frustrating

true about the rules. i got her a remote with huge buttons that can't damage the tv setup in any way, a phone that she can use, low energy bulbs that won't up the power bill even if left on 24/7..

it's just that she seems to be pissed at me more often than not, and i can't fix that, and i just can't ignore that. i come home 20 minutes late and she gives me shit about that or doesn't talk to me—even if i called—and whatever good mood i was in is gone in a wink and the only thing i want is to down a couple of shots, or maybe half a bottle

edit: from your other comment

>because they still insist on seeing the person as somehow "there" 

maybe it would be easier if i didn't see her as "there", but she sorta is. she forgets a lot, but also she remembers a lot, and she can cook and clean and do some laundry, and when she's not pissed at me we can have a conversation which is enjoyable.. perhaps i can't see the extent of her illness simply because i have lived with her through most of it and it was gradual, but—
thanks for the suggestion. i don't think there are courses or anything like that here, though. but perhaps i can find a good book on this thing, book is hopefully something i can get through.. should at least try
I agree, get a friend or other assistance to give you breaks so you can recharge your emotional batteries.  Your support network is important
nope. mom calls her maybe once a week, and the last we've heard from my uncle was the new years when he sent her a box of sweets without even a card. grandma doesn't look forward to hearing from them either, and that's something i can understand
Such a good idea :) 

Half of the problem, from where I stand as a carer of my mother with dementia is that, for a long time, people having to deal with someone with dementia really don't understand and are not made aware of the depth of disability the person suffers and the decline they will be on, because they still insist on seeing the person as somehow "there" in the way they were before, and they think they can stop that decline... probably mainly because there are no ready resources about dementia, as you say. I was not pointed to any learning curve by anyone.

In addition to not being pointed at the learning curve I needed to surmount, I did not actively seek such a learning curve myself, I think I was pretty much in denial at having to lose the person I knew and loved to the disease.

Result was that, in ongoing day-to-day denial of how bad things really were and were likely to get, I for ages rejected the need to even acknowledge - let alone accept - the depth of her disability. And of course, I therefore really did fail for ages to act appropriately in dealing with my mother's anxieties and depression, her hallucinations and delusions and ever increasingly disruptive behaviours (so, sorry Mom).

I do think you are really right in thinking there needs to be an in depth wiki or something out there that people struggling as we have could turn to. I often read posts here about someone or the other's struggle to deal with a person with dementia and I feel I know exactly where the person is in the evolution between denial and acceptance that I've had to go through. 

Its a hell of a journey towards acceptance. And its only after acceptance that I could muster the energy and focused creativity needed to find the idiosyncratic practical solution for each of the disruptive behaviours that were making my life as a carer and my mother's life as a dementia patient a living hell. 

I mean, it took me for ever to accept my mother was incontinent at night and that it was past time for me to stop fighting that deterioration off, to make sure she got a big lunch and only a blended evening meal, to buy her adult diapers, to put her to bed in a catsuit put on backwards so she could not remove it, to wake her for a late loo, to wake her again for an early loo - all so as to avoid the poo. 


The geriatric dementia specialist I took my mom to see after months and months of increasingly violent, pissed off behaviour from her - where she was attacking me, swearing at the carers, breaking everything from the security control box to pictures on the wall to wallpaper to curtains - spent weeks getting feedback from me and fine tuning not only which anti-depressants, anti-psychotic and anti-anxiety tabs she should be on, but also how much of them to take, and exactly when in the 24 period she should take them.

It helped hugely.. after a few week she lost most of the aggression and rage and life became bearable again :) Just! 

Perhaps you could get someone like I got on board to really focus on the anger?  
YouTube Teepa Snow. Excellent resource. She has books and DVDs iirc.
Oh god, that's brutal.  Does your state/locality have a "care line" set up?  My state [has a phone # & website](http://www.211.idaho.gov/) that links up with the correct bureaus of the Department of Health & Welfare.  I used this to find resources about getting my dad into a care facility, and I'd suggest you try to find a service that will get you/your grandmother set up with a social worker to help you find additional help.  Hearing "social worker" is a little scary at first, at least it was for me, because I had this notion in the back of my mind that they'd be looking for faults in my dad's care.  That might be the case, but obviously they're not going to find anything with you.  It's just going to be providing help.  I'm thinking that they might be able to help you figure out how to get state aid for elder day care so that you can get out of the house now and then.  They'll also be able to connect you up with caregiver support groups and other resources.
This is something I can help put together. It's been a few years since I set up Mediawiki, but it wouldn't be hard to catch up for a low-to-medium traffic site. The main thing to do is make sure such a resource doesn't already exist! No sense in re-inventing the wheel.
i'm not from the us. but, i tried hiring several people (not social workers) and it didn't work out at all. trust issues all the way.. also, only one person had agreed to stay with her during the night, which is a must

this is my job and i'll be doing it, it's just it's a bit hard sometimes and i wondered how others are coping with it
That would be amazing :)  

Over the next couple of days I'll see if there are any resources out there and post them. As you say, no use inventing the wheel


