Do you have a laptop you can bring? DVDs, YouTube and Pandora will be great. Many people with dementia respond well to music- start out playing music that would've been popular during her teenage & young adult years. Pandora is great for longer periods of listening, but YouTube videos sometimes will have a performance along with the audio, and that's nice. 

Go to your local library, and check out photography books of flowers. Something like this: 

http://www.amazon.com/One-Hundred-Flowers-Harold-Feinstein/dp/0821226657

She may be able to copy a photo of a flower. It's a little easier to just copy than draw out the flower and it's parts, selecting colors, etc. And if you can get her into it, keep reminding her that it's just for fun! Don't worry if the flower is orange and purple and colored outside of the lines; is she enjoying it? That's all that counts. 

For animals, short documentaries and YouTube might be nice. Documentaries/educational shows are nice because they don't necessarily have a story line; she can fade in and out of concentration, but the narrator will "remind" her in just a minute about what's happening. It's not like a movie or sitcom where there are characters and a plot line.
Very sweet of you to volunteer. My wife has AD and I find that most people shrink away because they don't understand or don't want to deal with the behavior.

Here's a paperback I bought. Only so-so for my case, but might be of help to you. Bless you.

Creating Moments of Joy for the Person with Alzheimer's or Dementia: A Journal for Caregivers, Fourth Edition
Brackey, Jolene

Skim through a pocket guide for gardeners? (I have one for birds, reptiles, trees, etc. - there's got to be one for flowers)

Can you take her off the property? Is there a park/arboretum/butterfly garden nearby?
 Could you plant some small pots with seeds and leave them on the windowsill?

Good luck.
Not sure if she has ever had children, or if she's interested, but I have read that some patients find a baby doll to be soothing. 

Stuffed animals, too!

Bless you for making this woman's life more pleasant. 
What a wonderful thing to do! Perhaps you can watch documentaries together? Netflix has a ton of them about animals and flowers that she may love. My SO has AD and can spend hours and hours doing this. Movies don't seem to work as well as the plot sometimes gets lost, but documentaries don't have that problem.  Also someone suggested I make a "fidget apron".  An apron with zippers, buttons and odd things attached to it, to keep hands busy. He is constantly tapping or picking at things including himself so it had been a improvement and seems to smooth him a bit. If you are allowed to take her somewhere the things you do don't need to be costly, some of our favorite things to do are feeding ducks at a local park or a quick walk in nature.  If her room or a common area has a nice window you might buy a few humming bird feeders. The nursing home would most likely not balk at providing the sugar and water to fill them (though you might need to do the work) as the cost is negligible and can be hidden in the food budget, but often new purchases for things like a bird feeder don't often get approved. Don't forget the importance of touch. A hug, a pat on the back, a hand massage all go a long way. We spend most of our lives being touched and as we age it happens less and less and takes its toll in unnoticed ways. I knew a woman who would visit her mother and have make up days. She would put her hair up, apply make up heavily and costume jewelry and they would giggle as they did:) Some people like it when their nails are painted and it's a calm activity. The most important part in all of this is to ensure that the activity is joyful for both of you. You may not need to enjoy it quite as much as her, but it should be enjoyable and then this is not a chore for you. Good luck and search until you find things that work well for you both. 
First off, thank you. I always want to be with my grandma but for the time when I can't be, it's so comforting to know there are a few people out there who show love to them when we can't be there. 

But to your question, my grandma enjoys magazines, even if they aren't something she is too interested in. She can't really read anymore, but looking at the pictures and flipping through the pages seems to soothe her. Also it's a very casual activity and so it doesn't feel like work to her like coloring occasionally can (sometimes she thinks it's a form to complete or something, and can get easily exhausted). 

I think that a photo book or documentary of different plants and animals would be fantastic like other people have suggested. If she likes dogs or cats, the show Too Cute! is a good one as it has soothing music and narration and very adorable animals and doesn't require any following of a plot. 

Perhaps tending to even fake flowers could calm her? I know my grandma likes talking about her beautiful window garden, and even though the flowers aren't real it doesn't seem to bother her. 

Thank you for your work, and I hope you both can have a wonderful time together!
I love that pocket guide idea! I was gonna go to my local bookstore tomorrow and look for something like that, actually. Also the seeds in pots is a great idea! I bet she would really enjoy getting to water them every day. I'm honestly not sure if I'm allowed to take her anywhere since I'm just a volunteer. 
Stuffed animals are a great idea as well. I was thinking of bringing some in. She has a daughter so I'm not sure how she would feel about a baby doll, but I could try that for sure. Also, she's definitely the one blessing **my** life:) 
Maybe you could suggest seed planting / plant care as a group activity. 
Put everyone at tables, small bags of soil, small pots, random seeds. 

Oh, and maybe painting pots? Small terra cotta pots and some small paint sets. The painting doesn't have to be Van Gogh, just bright and cheery. 
I just browsed Amazon and BN, and there are guides to flowers for all different areas available. 
I wouldn't think you would HAVE to keep it local, because the flowers of Hawaii book looks fun. 

Oh! You and she could cannibalize old calendars and magazines and make pretty collages! Pick up some picture frames from Good Will or discount stores and frame your creations. 
