Hey there,

PhD student studying alzheimer's disease here. Our lab focuses on the connection between heart and brain health, and theres a pretty strong one. Honestly, anything that would be good for the heart is probably a safe bet. low salt/ low cholesterol diet and especially some daily exercise if your mother is up for it. These things will not stop the disease though (if she does have it), they are associated with reduced risk of developing the disease, but correlation does not imply causation, so we really dont know at this point whether it will actually make a difference, especially in people who are already diagnosed. It certainly wont hurt though.
A strict Mediterranean diet and near daily aerobic exercise.   
This study from a very reputable doctor suggests that the combination of many alternative treatments together may be helpful to reverse cognitive decline. Among those discussed are intermittent fasting (lots of evidence there on help for brain function), cutting out simple carbohydrates, Vitamin D, curcumin, ashweganda, and exercise. See Table 1. 

http://www.impactaging.com/papers/v6/n9/full/100690.html
My SO was diagnosed a few years ago. The one thing that has helped us more than any medication is removing stress from our lives. I try to schedule things so that the work is done early in the day so that we can spend time together and enjoy each other. I make sure bedtime is early enough and set at a regular time that getting up is easier etc.  
www.alz.org

Great site for info. Also has a forum you can join to talk to others that are in/have been in your situation. Lots of good advise. Good Luck


There is no cure. We have seen no improvement with the latest medicines.  Our focus is keeping him happy and healthy. With him we keep a routine. We have him help as much as possible with daily tasks. We keep him active.  He loves TV he watched when he was younger and the music. 

Hope this helps. 
And a prescription for Folbic 
Make sure her sodium, potassium, and magnesium levels are ok. Also, ensure she gets enough rest and has any anxiety/depression controlled. These can affect her score on memory tests.

Source: I do memory testing for a living
Thank you everyone- all great advice! I appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts.
A strict adherence to a Mediterranean diet likely slows down the progression of Alzheimer's disease.

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2673956/

Most studies on fish oil indicate that it may lessen the risk for Alzheimer's disease but that it may not slow down its progression.

The problem with turmeric is that it does not absorb well into the bloodstream.  Researchers are working on variations of turmeric/curcumin that may enter the bloodstream and the brain better.

Korean red ginseng may lead to improvements in cognition for 26 weeks that are maintained for two years (or more).

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3659550/

Heat processed ginseng (steamed at higher temperatures than Korean red ginseng) led to improvements in cognition and behavior at 12 weeks that were maintained for 24 weeks.

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22780999

Aromatherapy with rosemary, lemon, orange, and lavender essential oils led to improvements in cognition related to personal orientation in 28 days.

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20377818

For my mother who had Alzheimer's disease for eight years before she died of unrelated causes, my sisters and I had her smell a few essential oils (such as rosemary, clove, bay laurel, and orange) for a few seconds each morning.  She recognized her home again, slept better, recognized certain objects (such as a rose and sugar), could remember her name again and spell it, counted numbers, recited the alphabet, and was much more alert and aware.  She had difficulties remembering short-term events and sorting out information (which made her seem to be random in what she said), but she improved slightly in these last two area as well.

I know there are people who will disagree (and some have done so quite vehemently over the years), but there are several natural products that treat the disease better than the prescribed medicines.
I'm thinking of trying aromatherapy for my wife with AD. Seems risk free. Is there a particular technique that works well? Thanks.
Direct inhalation is probably the best form of aromatherapy because more of the useful compounds reach the brain that way (as opposed to diffusers).  The essential oils that are most effective for cognition contain eugenol (such as clove, bay laurel, lemon balm, cinnamon leaf, nutmeg, and rosemary).  However, in some people these oils increase stress and worsen anxiety (particularly if the person has stress from past dental experiences where clove oil was used).  Some of these oils may potentially increase blood pressure.  To help with sleep, lavender, sweet orange, rose, patchouli, or bergamot are good choices.
Thanks for the advice and warnings. I'll proceed slowly.
