I would let your girlfriend dictate your involvement. Go to her and say "I want to be there for you when it comes to your mom, what do you want from me?" 

First of all this will get you all the boyfriend points in the world. Second, everyone is different and everyone may want something else. She may not want you involved at all, this is her mother and she may feel you being part of it is inappropriate since you aren't married or blood related. She may want you to be separate from her mother purely so you can be her "safe space" someone she can be with without having to think of or talk about her mothers condition. Don't be offended if she doesn't want you involved, just let her know if she ever changes her mind to come to you. 

Wanting to be involved is great, and you deserve all the credit for wanting to be a part of all of her life. But you should definitely do it on her terms. 

Don't be afraid to talk about her mother's illness, to talk about health issues that you might find squeamish. Support her no matter what. Never make her feel guilty or say things like "but that's your mother" or make her feel as if she's wrong for being upset. 

Set yourself up to be the person your girlfriend can come to for help. Whether it is grocery shopping, "momsitting", or just letting her vent during a difficult experience. Communication and listening make all the difference. 
I was recently discussing aging parents with a friend, specifically how hard it is to get them to do things or to leave the house. We agreed that it might have to do with insecurity and confidence... Even if they (the elder) aren't completely aware of their condition, I suspect they have at least a feeling that everything is now more complicated for them than it used to be, and staying home/sticking to the routine feels safer. If you want to help your gf help her mom to try new things or get out more, you have to be sort of clever in suggesting those activities so they seem as safe and unchallenging as possible. My 2 cents.  

Also, I agree with the other commenter, very good of you to want to help out. If you enjoy spending time with the mom, mom-sitting sounds like a fantastic way to earn favor with the gf. 
It's okay to not want to do anything at that stage. Find things to do with her in her home. Get some jigsaw puzzles, senior centers often have stacks of them to borrow on the honor system. 

She might like board games or cards. Maybe watch some shows with her. 

She's enjoying life at home. It's okay to spend the last years of your life doing whatever you want, I believe. 
When she vents, hold her close and stroke her hair. Just listen. If she is cool with it, offer to stay with mom for a few hours so your gf can have some time to herself. 
>I would let your girlfriend dictate your involvement

Letting her "dictate my involvement" is sooo hard. I just want to "fix" it, even though there is nothing to fix. It is what it is.

> Don't be afraid to talk about her mother's illness, to talk about health issues that you might find squeamish

Yeah, I've been reading up on the illness so that we can talk about it more in depth. Especially regarding what to expect and what that means for our future.

Thanks for your advice!
>you have to be sort of clever in suggesting those activities so they seem as safe and unchallenging as possible.

This is really sound advice. That is exactly the way we need to try approaching things. Thanks!
You are most welcome. Best wishes!
