Here's AFTD's page on the overlap and relationship between FTD and ALS (motoneuron disease; MND).

http://www.theaftd.org/understandingftd/disorders/ftdal

I have been told by researchers in the field that the first step in genetic testing (besides genetic counseling, of course) is to have the currently afflicted patient tested.  That patient is screened for the known mutations.   Those tests, if positive, will identify the specific mutations that are present.  The offspring and other relatives can then have more focused genetic testing that evaluates just those mutations that could be present.  

To your question regarding discussion points with the doctor, I'm not sure how to motivate the doctor to prescribe and (more importantly) the insurance company to pay for the testing.  I know that there are some research programs doing that, but it requires the patient to be tested first.  As I learn more, I'll post about it here.  Where are you located?
My dad is 51 and has FTD. Seen symptoms from 3 years back but now its moving VERY FAST and to the point where he cant control his bowels and his reasoning and personallity are all gone. Got back from genetics test appointment and found out he has this PSEN2 gene and there was only 1 other case in the world right now in their database of what he has. An extremely rare case and now Me and my sister have a 50% of developing this early onset dementia. (Im 23 shes 26). She recently had a child and now if she has the gene her son will have the same 50% chance of developing this. We were told we can get tested but it may not show up until the disease spreads and we get a bit older. Im not getting tested I DO NOT want to know if this will happen to me or not. So now having kids for me is out since if I have it my child will be 50% having it too. Wish there were some scientists or something that I could help do research since its so rare. Id gladly help out as long as they dont tell me if I have the gene or not
Thanks for the info.  I'm in Maryland.  I called my insurance to see if there was any coverage and there were no genetic counselors, but there were some nuerology offices.  I called a couple and they didn't seem like they would be able to help.  The desk suggested I go through a primary care (which I don't have, new to the area) to be referred out.  
I'm going to just make an appointment with a neurologist this week since I haven't been getting anywhere.  I got in touch with a genetics office and they said that would be the best thing to do and to get a reference.  She said the wait time is about a year though.  My mom never got a genetic test as far as I know.  I guess she still can, but she doesn't see a doctor anymore since she's so far advanced, but I'll try to get something worked out in the next couple weeks.
I've been mulling this a lot myself lately. The decision to have future kids, for me, is 100% dependent on results of genetic testing. Ive kind of decided I'd rather know now so I can have that option available to me. OP, my mother contacted The Brain Support Network out in California, they can help you find out what you need to do to get genetic testing.
