Sorry your going through this, it seems like so many people are now, including myself. Never forget who your grandmother was before 
From someone who's late grandmother suffered from dementia & parkinsons, and many others with various severe mental illness, I appreciate how difficult this sort of thing can be to deal with. 
Dementia can do the sort of thing you mention, but as hard as it is its easier if you try not to take it personally. The aggression and how it manifests can stem from confusion and frustration on their part which they can't express or deal with, or something that happened years ago interfering with their current thoughts.
If your grandmother didn't have the dementia or schizophrenia she may never dream of saying that sort of thing, but it's one of the sad realities of mental health and people like you and me have to deal with. 
take comfort in the thought that you love them, that you'll try to help them, and that if they say something hurtful that it's really the illness talking. 

I'm sorry for your pain. Although it is tough, I think you must understand / accept that your grandma is losing her mind. Honestly, she would have probably said "you know what to do" to anyone. 
My mammaw had the same thing and it sucks so much. She was always so sweet and loving then out of no where was incredibly angry calling my grandpa a "shit ass" (which we thought was almost humorous looking back because she was just that sweet and kind she didn't know any other curse words). Alzheimer's is a horrible disease and the only thing you can do is love her. Just hug her and tell her you love her. It's hard on the whole family and you just have to stick together even when she is having the worst days. Things will be hard from now on so be prepared. I miss my mammaw everyday so cherish this time even though things are hard. The Alzheimer's association has tons of great information for families and caregivers so check that out sometime, it could help. 
If you can, find a support group, join an online forum, get therapy if you can. Do something for YOU. You can only be so strong by yourself, and you need to understand that your worth as a human being is not based on this illness.
We don't know the entireity of what she said but life will challenge you sometimes. Things will challenge you because right now, you cannot have everything you want. We all go through it but you are not a lone. It's unusual and maybe a bit disturbing but remember her when these things didn't exist. I don't know what she was liike or your relationship - but that's a power anyone has. Choosing to think about the now or choosing to remember how it was and the latter would very often give you a knowing that you can over come it because you might nkow she doesn't mean it. 

Everyone has had bad experiences but us little people can scale very big mountains. 
