 your mother's safety is paramount, so i'd be giving him the drugs.  My mom used to knit, all day every day. But then she stabbed another resident with her knitting needles.  So I took them away from her.  Everyone's safety comes first.  funny thing is she talked to me yesterday about knitting all the day before.  LOL I've had her knitting needles for months now.


I've been there - done that.
Listen. It sucks, but you know the end-game here. Do your best to make them as comfortable as possible, and part of that is making them less aggressive so the caretakers aren't resenting them (your Mom in this case).

My mom said and did things the last couple of months of her life that were so out of character. My dad hated medicine "mind-altering medications" he'd say, my whole life. My sisters and I finally convinced him to relent and let the facility administer per the the doc's recommendations - and life still sucked, but Mom wasn't acting so out-of-character.

When she passed, she was on morphine - had been for almost 2-days at that point. 

It's hard. It's really hard. I know what you are feeling. You think you are prepared - you've done the research - and you know what that next stage is, then it happens and you're "WTF? I WASN'T READY FOR THIS".

My heart goes out to you. 
Highly recommend he sees a geriatric psych who specializes in dementia. They are much more familiar with the intricacies of meds & dosing than a run of the mill family doc (or even neurologist) is. 

Aggression is a big issue for us too. It used to be constant- screaming, crying, "get out of my house," nastiness. Now it's less frequent. There are still occasional spikes, but overall the days are much easier. It took a few months to get a routine settled, and some fiddling with the dosages. 

In my humble opinion, Valium isn't going to cut it. All that does is cause sleepiness, which can actually make confusion and aggression worse. That and Xanax were what was prescribed by the neurologist. YMMV. Geriatric psych has her on risperidone 0.5 in the afternoon, and 0.25 at bedtime, along with a mild sleeping pill at bedtime. Risperidone is an anti psychotic and shouldn't be prescribed like its candy, but this is a serious and potentially dangerous situation- the aggression warrants it. 

If you weren't already aware, if a serious incident occurs, Mom can call 911 and have him brought to ER and admitted into geriatric psych inpatient, where they can evaluate and treat. 
We have used [Ativan](https://www.drugs.com/ativan.html) to help with aggression and it helps in our case. Who knows the reason our provider decided on this rather than Valium, perhaps an interaction with other meds or just a prescriber preference. 
You are absolutely right - there isn't a magic drug that works for everyone. This is very good advice. 
