When my father in law gets into this kind of "loop" (for lack of a better term), we just pick an answer (e.g. "They'll be here in the morning so need to get a good night's sleep") and be prepared to answer it over and over again. Sometimes my SO will adjust the answer a bit based on how my FIL reacted to the last one. We're going for whatever soothes him and seems to sit well with him. Occasionally we have some luck changing to a completely different subject, and if he's too agitated then ice cream often resets his mood. 

You might want to talk with her doctor about her not sleeping through the night as well, in case there is anything s/he can do.

Much respect to you for taking care of your grandmother at home. It's got to be exhausting. 
My father went through a period like this after he had been at the assisted living for a while. When I came to visit he believed I was there to take him home, especially when I was getting ready to leave. During this time he thought the assisted living was "work". I assured him I would take him home soon, then changed the subject. Often, but not always, he would let it go. Eventually - maybe after two months - he stopped talking about going home as frequently and over time it ceased altogether.

I don't see any way around getting up and reassuring her that she is going home "soon". Hopefully it's just a temporary thing and you'll go back to full nights of sleep. 

As /u/not-rocket-science said, consider discussing the situation with her doctor - and much respect for taking care of her at home. Best of luck!
With my grandpa we would take him for a ride through town and most of the time he would be content with that. Unfortunately, home for him was his childhood farm home and when he didn't go there, there wasn't much we could do to calm him. 
My grandmother is living with my mother and has asked to go home too, she refuses to go to bed when she's in that state and gets aggressive and mean.  My mother calls me when it happens and I talk to her, tell her "I'll be there first thing in the morning but not before so you may as well go to bed" and it's enough to satisfy her (for now). When she wakes up I'm there and she has no memory of it.  We take drives a couple of times a week to the area where she raised her kids, she reminisces and is pretty happy by the end of it.  
I showed photos of my mother's old homes and her animals and distracted her with those. I think distraction and delay tactics work best. Nowadays, a couple years on, I think her memories of what she thought of as home have gone and she doesn't want to go home anymore .
If it's possible to make her more active and awake during the day, she may be better able to sleep through the night. Consider medication as well.

Generally just delaying with telling her they will be here after her nap or that they called and said they aren't ready yet and that she can keep sleeping and that you'll come get her as soon as they arrive would be my tactics. Assure her that you'll be watching out and that she is safe and fine.
My late grandma would say the same. My mother still owned the house she lived in all her life so she would constantly drive between the two often up to twice a week (100 mile one way) to placate her. She was highly intelligent and a dominant personality so couldn't be reasoned with. I found that it was best to answer a question with another question, that was the only way to avoid her bending the conversation to her demands and driving my mother to tears. We all had to work to keep her awake until midnight at least so that we could all get sleep. My grandma told us she wanted to die and stopped eating. We coaxed her and spoonfed her as well as we could and brought her to doctors but she slipped into unconsciousness and died within a day.
