If there’s one thing I’ve learned from my multiple dealings with my great uncle Dain (a sexual predator who threatened the purity of young schoolchildren all across town), it is that it is absolutely disgraceful to treat yourself as some sort of hate-sponge, where you just suck it all up and turn the other cheek.  No one sings songs of praise for the spineless punching bags of the world.  Tell your sad sack of shit of a father that he’d better shape up and be fucking quick about it or his ungrateful ass is going to end up alone in a rural ditch with the cockroaches and rats.  Even the goodliest of souls have their limits, and if you continue putting up with his hateful bullshit you run the very high risk of suffering his corrupting influence and eventually reciprocating it with your own children.  The human subconscious is very strange, and one often finds themselves inexplicably defiled by negative influences against their will.  It’s a very “children of alcoholics become alcoholics” sort of thing (which occurs at an alarmingly high percentage).  Make sure to put an end to his insane ramblings immediately.  I think even the most senile old fools would understand the weight behind the words “if you don’t cut that shit out I’ll chop off your dick and feed it to the pigs.”
This sounds exactly like my mother-in-law! Seriously.

She was sometimes mean before she was diagnosed with Alzheimer's and then she became truly nasty. My spouse was her caregiver and every day her mother would say the most horrible, hurtful things to her. She was accusing my spouse of planning to steal her house for the past ten years. She was completely delusional and in a very short few weeks, was placed into long term care.

What happened next surprised the whole family. She became cheerful and kind. The mean, hurtful woman was no more. Alzheimer's changed her personality for the better. It was kind of amazing.

I don't have any special words of wisdom for you and your husband but please be kind to each other since dementia has an impact on the whole family. Your dad could continue to be mean or maybe his personality will change too. Try to remember that he is out in his own world and won't even remember what he said to you.


In order to survive and grow emotionally, you are going to have to learn to tune it out. Learn to always smile and have a positive outlook. Very often such behaviour is meant to be an attention getter. If it gets no special attention, the payoff becomes smaller and smaller. Improperly parented children employ very similar techniques to intimidate, manipulate and ultimately take control of their hapless parents.

Watch "Grace Under Fire"; especially the interaction between Grace and her Mother In Law.
From a behavioral standpoint, as the brain degrades, it makes perfect sense to view everything in the environment as a threat. If the patient lacks the mental ability to sort out threat from non threat, treating everything as threat is more likely to assure survival. The next stage is apathy. It can really help to step back and deal with the outbursts from a more detached position.
We tune them out. My SO has bore the brunt of it for many years...he brushes it off. Whenever one of those comments is directed at me, I redirect or simply do not acknowledge it. 

  We care for his grandparents. Grandma is developing dementia faster than Grandpa. Grandpa has type 2 diabetes and refuses all treatment, is convinced that his doctors are all out to take his money etc. He has no self control when it comes to food, so I hide foods that I buy for SO and I. He spends thousands on cookies and ice cream and things for Grandma to cook. 
Ha, you sound just like me with most other people in my life except him.  I'm getting better about it, though--I did stand up to him the night he hurt me so bad and I made it extremely clear he had done an awful thing and I wouldn't put up with it.  One of the things that really burned me is that he said it in front of my 10 year old daughter (who knows Grandpa is an asshole).  His comment was about my weight, and I have been so extremely careful to not drag home any issues or shame about bodies--skinny, fat, tall, short, etc.  So the fact that he put that down in front of her, combined with how strongly it affected me, adds to my fury about it.  It's just kind of a helpless fury though, because I cannot affect any change with him due to the dementia.

In some ways, it almost seems kinder to leave him in a ditch somewhere, because his end would come quickly.  Even though it would be awful, I don't think it's less awful than this long, lingering thing where he's miserable and he makes everyone around him miserable too.  
He's exhibited other behaviors that the assisted living staff have learned to ignore in order to stop them, and that works.  I'll have to keep that in mind.
So is there nothing a caregiver can do about it, other than try to manage their own reactions?
Understood, and agreed. Good luck!
Let his doctor know, first of all. Medication can reduce the frequency and severity of the symptoms. Finding out if the outburst is being caused by pain or some other type of avoidable distress can also be very important
(tips: https://www.alz.org/care/alzheimers-dementia-aggression-anger.asp#respond) Urinary tract infections are a common cause. Other than that, you can choose whether or not to expose your daughter (or yourself)  to it. My uncle has the typical "dirty old man" behavior of frontotemporal degeneration and is not at all safe around kids. Unfortunately this is the hereditary type and two of his grandchildren have early onset dementia. Sometimes leaving them in a ditch is not enough to leave the problem behind. 
