I too am caring for my dad with dementia. He doesn't have a positive diagnosis because the testing takes over four hours and is an hour away. His mother died with dementia at 98. He's only 78. We believe it started five years or so ago. It started with being very mean for no reason. We didn't notice be wake my dad has always been an asshole so it was hard for us to distinguish that as different. Fast forward a couple years and he's let junkies move into his home. They stole everything from him. Things got bad. 

Now I don't work because I can't leave him alone. He can't cook or prepare food at all. He can't drive. I'm exhausted. I have zero help. I've been here six months so far. 

I know how you feel! PM me any time to you need to chat or vent! 

* some states offer small payments for respite care, call the Alzheimer's association in your state and see what services are available. His insurance might cover some home health so you can step out to work a few hours a week. 
I feel for you, you are on the start of a tough journey.  Be sure to have your dad sign a Power of Attorney document for you, this will allow you to do stuff for him, when he can't.  He needs to give you POA while he is still cognizant of what it means.  Secondly, lookup your Area Agency on Aging office, and give them a call...they can begin to hook you up with all sorts of available resources.  You might also want to consult with a specialty eldercare attorney, they can advise you on how to best position your dad and yourself financially, to prepare for eventualities, and qualify for benefits.
Look for a local Alzheimer's Association office, and make an appointment to speak with someone there. They have a lot of information on dealing with people with dementia (not just ALZ) and you may even find a support group of people going through similar things. I agree with /u/MostlyCivil about the POA, it's critical. Do it before someone else does (my FIL's gold-digging girlfriend tried to get him to sign over POA but thankfully it didn't work). 

Also, if the affected person is a military vet (in the US), be aware there are available benefits that will help a lot: either to help with home health care or to the veteran's home (if it comes to that).
[deleted]
Yes! We are still looking into VA benefits but I've heard sometimes it can take up to a year to be approved. So start with the VA- we did it backwards!
I definitely don't mind! I have great friends here but none of them really get what my life is like. It would be nice to chat with someone who understands how maddening this is!
