I work in the memory care unit of a nursing home. There is one man who can't remember that his wife died. She died over 20 years ago, long before his Alzheimers ever began. He constantly asks where she is and calls for her when he needs help. We try not to lie, but we don't tell him that she died. There are only two things that can happen: he doesn't believe us, which just leads to him not trusting us, or he gets so upset that he cannot be calmed. His family lives several states away and are only able to visit a few times every year. They always tell him at some point that she has died, which only makes him upset, and therefore them upset. Sometimes he will remember she has died for several days, during which he doesn't eat much, communicate his needs, and doesn't want to get out of bed. It is very bad for his health, which is why the nurses at our nursing home don't want us to tell him the truth. Why make him miserable if it won't do any good? When he believes she's simply at the grocery store or napping, he brushes his teeth and uses the bathroom, does his exercises, eats meals, talks to us and the other residents, etc. All things that he doesn't do when he knows his wife is dead. He is much happier thinking she is alive and that's how we let him live out the rest of his days. 

It is possible that your grandmother would never believe you, even if you tried to tell her. But she may get upset or angry. People with Alzheimers tend to not trust easily, so she may think you're keeping her from him or trying to fool her and become very hard to work with. It may be better to tell her that he's gone fishing or something that he actually would do, depending on how long her memory lasts. A few hours? You can tell her that every single day. She will think he's happy and she will be happy. 

Ultimately it's up to you and your family, but she's probably not in any state to grieve, and never will be. It may only hurt her health. 
Why would you be telling her? For you, or for her sake? Is is that you want her to be able to grieve? Do you feel guilty withholding that information? This is one the hardest things to deal with, but I have found that if you can put your own feelings away, then it becomes a much easier decision.

Ultimately, if she asks if he is alive, tell the truth. If she is aware enough to ask the question, then she will accept the answer. Most likely, she will just keep asking where he is - and then if you are only considering HER feelings and not your own (or anyone else), then it's clear that you don't tell her. Change the subject, dodge the question, etc. If her Alzheimer's is advanced enough, it won't take long to start talking about something else. Give her the love that you know your grandfather would be giving her by being with her and being an awesome grandchild. She is still in there somewhere, and this is the best way you can help her.
"He's resting."
I suppose not telling her would be easier for everybody. There really is no reason to make her upset or angry, so I'm not going to mention it from here on. As long as she's happy, there's no real reason to tell her unless she keeps asking
Should we take her to the funeral? There will be a viewing the day before as well, but I'm not sure which to take her to or if to even take her to either at all. My parents, too, are wondering the same thing as I.
A lot of the time she'll ask where her mom is (who died 16 years ago), and we just tell her she's out at the moment. My grandmother forgets about it shortly there after and never asks again. We've told her she's died before but she just laughs it off like it's a joke, similar to what she did with her husband.

Like I said in a comment above, I suppose you're right in that there's no reason for us to upset her at all. Only if she asks shall we tell her the truth.
From what you've said, I wouldn't take her to the funeral or viewing. The point of those events are for you to grieve you loved one, but I don't believe she would be able to do that. She would be confused or sad, and all the visitors would have to see that, which may be hard for people who are not close to her to deal with. 
That sounds logical to me. Thank you so much mate, I'll be propping this idea to my family later today.
Good luck. I hope that you can find something that works for your family and peace knowing that your grandmother is happy, at least in her own mind. 
