Is she in pain? That seems like it would be an obvious place to start. Have her checked out by the doctor for ulcers, heartburn, gall stones, and constipation. Complaints shouldn't necessarily be ignored just because of dementia... Sometimes they're exaggerated, but there's often a reason for them. :) 

If there's nothing wrong, then they should just go with it. Get mints or Tic Tacs, and give them to her saying that they'll help. Even some colored Crystal Light or something can be passed off as "liquid medicine," with the bonus of keeping her hydrated. A tumbler with a straw would be easy for her to manage & sip on. They can even "schedule" her medicine for a few times every day, which might give her some reassurance. 
My mother has dementia and has similar preoccupations.  I think it's because she was so independent before managing her own medicines.  But I've since taken over due to her condition.  So she fixates on requesting Tylenol, laxatives, and antacids.  After multiple doctor visits we do know she is in no distress and is just fixating. So, I've designed a placebo system that seems to be working.  Whenever she asks fora Tylenol (she only does this once per day), I give her a calcium tablet (she needs it anyway).  When she asks for a laxative (she loves Exlax for some reason, I give her a square of dark chocolate), and when she asks for an antacid I give her a certs.  

If she was in any real distress she would stay in bed and definitely appear ill and then I would most certainly give her something or take her in for a checkup. But, so far so good.
All good suggestions! It's frustrating when they fixate on a perceived issue. For my dad it's a few things, his cat is starving, he has to clean up the yard, I never feed him (major eye roll, he eats almost six meals a day!). It gets old quick! 
Keep an eye on things to make sure she isn't getting/trying to get the medicine on her own since you guys won't give it to her. 
Firs of all: if its a recurring problem, you should take her to see the doctor. as others write, it might be something that he can help with - maybe she needs something for her digestion, maybe there is an ulcer, whatever.. 

i work in my school holidays as a caregiver at a nursing home, sometimes they will say things like this, that they need something for their stomach, more out of habit than anything else. I.e. they feel "something" is wrong, but they can't quite place what it is, because often that feeling is more psychological than physical and related to the dementia, but because they cannot express that, they will say its the stomach. The ones complaining often get some prune juice: it is really good for the stomach and helps with digestion (which can in fact suffer if they have this feeling of unease, and cause the stomach aches). As you write, she keeps asking cause she doesnt get anything, so just the whole placebo effect, the feeling of "being heard", of getting something to help with the stomach might really help her a lot, to calm her down and help get rid of the feeling of unease. Say the prune juice is for her stomach and it will help, maybe this is enough to help her :)

To keep her occupied: Music from when she was young and old movies, that she know, are great occupations. Also, if anyone in the family has a pet that can come visit, this can really help with cheering up :) does she know how to knit or do anything with her hands? If she is still quite fit, this kind of repetetive motions she might still remember, and still be able to do. Also simple tasks like folding clothes, wiping the table etc. 
Want to add that if she just has an upset stomach then good ol' ginger ale or a cup of warm water might be a solution.  Ginger has anti-nausea properties in it and warm water can help with digestion.  
Thanks! They've had her checked, I went out and bought some crystal light and tic tacs so maybe that will help.:)
That's a very similar situation! I'm hoping the "sugar pills" will work!
Indeed! It's driving my friend crazy so I'm trying to find a way to help her. I hate seeing her so stressed!
Yes, great suggestions! I also found something interesting the other day, Dramamine All Natural are actually ginger pills! 
