Yes. They can also start to get better before eventually passing, so try to take it a day at a time even if that sounds like a ridiculous cliche. Hold close to the people who are there for you and who can understand and who will be around when she is gone. If possible, find some nurse or social worker or doctor who can help explain your exact prognosis and options and sit with your family while you explore them.
Just keep her comfortable and tell her Dad is out shopping. Yes, been though it.
It's hard because you just want it to be over, even though you know that can only happen one way. You feel guilty because it feels like you're wishing get dead, but that's not what you're wishing for at all. You just want the pain and the confusion to end. 
Unfortunately I know this feeling too well. 

My papa passed away on Valentines Day this year. May last year he had a fall and then he went down hill from there. From Christmas he didn't eat, from late January he couldn't even drink. Days prior he lost his speech. 

Even with the morphine and medication, somewhere deep down she knows what you are say. Tell her you love her, tell her everything you want to tell her. As hard as it is try and enjoy the last moments. My papa couldn't remember my nana had died 11 years prior, it broke my heart having to tell her she had passed away. To see him grieve all over again because I had to tell him she wasn't here any more,was one of the worst moments.. all you can do is hope she forgets that thought once again.

4 days prior to my papa passing away we had a day where we chatted about going to the beach for ice cream. We then had a sleep next to each other and we chatted in between the hallucinations and agitation. This day together helped give me closure, especially since the next day he lost his speech.

It's not going to be easy, it will prob be harder before it stops. You'll prob be wishing it would end, it's okay to think that, as you don't want to see her go through it. Also don't beat yourself up if you feel like a weight has been lifted when she does pass, it's a natural feeling. 

Best advice I could give is reassure her that its okay to go. This is probably the hardest conversation you will have, cause you know when they do, there is no way to bring them back. I put off having this conversation as I wasn't ready, but I knew i had to. He told me he didn't want to leave me as he wanted to make sure i was okay. I told him I would be fine ( even though deep down, i wasn't sure i would be if he went). I had that conversation on the Saturday night and he was gone by the Sunday lunchtime. Sometimes they just need to know, its okay to go.

After he passed away in my arms, I had left the room and broke down in the corridor. When I went back in and looked at him, it was the strangest thing as he looked happy for the first time in months now that he was at peace. It hurts so much, but remember you are not alone. 

My love and thoughts are with you, if you need to talk, i'm here. 
Yes...Up until Feb of this year, my mom was what we thought in  late stage 5 to early stage six. Up until that time she had been slowly loosing her speech and basically going through most of the effects of the disease. Then in March she started to rapidly decline. She could only say a word here and there, did not want to eat or drink, and started having a hard time standing and walking. We (my sisters and me) did not realize it at the time but mom had entered the stage that I call the Beginning of the End. By the time May got here mom was so weak we took her to see her doctor, hoping the doctor would give her intravenous fluids to ward off dehydration. To our surprise the doctor told us that mom had reached the end stage of the disease and it was time to call in hospice. The doctor estimated mom had 2 weeks to 2 months to live. Mom died on June 15th, 2016, 2 weeks from the time hospice can in . I was in shock for a few weeks because mom had only been diagnosed 4 years ago and I thought we would be dealing this this disgusting disease for a few more years. Today, however, I can say that as much as I miss my mom, I'm thankful she did not suffer as long as I have seen others suffer. She still knew me and my sisters, and she was only incontinent for one day. These were two of the things she dreaded the most. My mom was ready to go.

I shared my story with you because rapid decline can mean that the end is not to far away. Luckily my mom never had a fall or accident, but for four year, I read everything I could get my hands on about dementia/Alzheimer's and from what I learned, an accident or illness can bring on a rapid decline. Take it one day at a time, and try not to get to stressed out about what tomorrow will bring. Best of luck to you and your family.  
My mother has been dying of dementia, in one way or the other, for a decade or more, and I don't think she has much longer to go. Strength to you. 
Last week, the home called to say she was much worse. I got there, my brother and sister-in-law were there. She was breathing strangely and... her eyes were half open. She looked very strange.

I stayed with her until about 10.40pm. I'd been up the night before until 2am as my partner went into A&E for suspected kidney stones, so I left. She seemed stable.

I got home, to get a phone call to say she died ten minutes after I left.

I don't want my last memory of mum to be the hours before she died... there will be a viewing of her body before the funeral. If it's like my dad's death I'll be fearful to approach and she won't look real... but it's got to better than they way her eyes looked.

Goodbye mum.
Pretty good summary.
