How much is she able to eat? How is her swallowing? Is she able to swallow? You may need to consult a nurse who has experience feeding people with the type of difficulty your grandma is having. Sometimes when people with Alzheimer's get to a point where they have this kind of problems eating, they could easily choke or aspirate food into their lungs. Do you know at about what stage your grandma is in. Sounds like she is pretty far along. 
If it's the food, she may connect that the taste doesn't match the consistency. How does she do with Ensure? 
My mother was like this as well.  It sucks seeing someone forget how to chew, swallow,  suck. We have her ensure as well and eventually bought a nutri bullet blender to blend her food with ensure, but that only goes so far. The real problem comes when she can't get liquids up the straw. Can she swallow liquids without a straw? 
I don't usually feed her, other relatives do, but last time I was there she had a cup of "food" and about quarter cup of ensure. Didn't seem like much. However she usually looks quite healthy and she's not skinny. She can swallow okay I think, she usually takes food rather slow though. 

I don't know what stage she's in. Maybe you would have better knowledge?...at this point she can't walk either, a few years ago she could, but couldn't recognize herself in the mirror. She seldom moves her arms too. I believe she still remembers her children, and she probably remembers me too since she remembers an inside joke we had. Though I believe her memory is still sort of wonky. What do you think I can expect to come down the line at this point?
She likes Ensure, we give it to her reguarly, though it still takes a long time to feed her.
It's hard to say. The symptoms of Alz. are the same for most but everyone goes through them differently. It sounds like she's had Alz. for quite a while now. How is her speech and vocabulary? Was she a large woman before Alz.? Is her inability to walk due to Alz. or some other cause? If her mobility problems are because of Alz., it sounds to me like she is in stage 6 to 7. Stage 7 is the final stage. 

My mother was in late stage 5 to early stage 6, and then all of a sudden within 4 months time she rapidly declined through stage 6 and 7 and passed away. Which in the case of Alz. was a blessing. Some people can linger through the final stages for quite some time.

Check out www.alz.org for tons of great information and resources. Since your Grandma cannot walk anymore and is having serious eating problems, I would think her doctor would prescribe her hospice care.   
It may be less stressful for all to switch to only nutrition shakes. Unfortunately, it won't get easier. 
