I'm sorry, this is a scary time for you, and her as well.  I'd take her to her doctor.  We waited too long with my mother in law and I wish we hadn't ignored the early signs.
If it was just confusion from time to time, I would think it's probably just all the stress she is under. But making up false stories is not a good sign. I was reading that caregivers for Alzheimer's (especially for those living with and caring for someone everyday) was in itself a risk factor for getting Alzheimer's. Also, there is a family connection for your mom. Maybe it's time your mom started taking care of herself. Maybe She needs to see her doctor. 
I'm so sorry you and your family are going through this. Dementia and general memory problems can be caused by many things including stress, medications and several diseases. It does not mean she has Alzheimer's disease, but with a family history it is important to check it out. Get her to set up a doctors appointment and if you can't be there with her, try calling or writing a letter to her doctor explaining what you have witnessed. 

If she is the primary caregiver, do what you can to ease the burden when you can. How long has it been since she took a vacation, went to the dentist, went to her own doctor or went out to lunch on her own?  It is very common for caregivers to neglect themselves as there is too much for a single person to handle. 

If you aren't able to help in that way because you live elsewhere or your schedule is restrictive search the Internet for adult day cares, support groups, even just fun activities your mom might enjoy taking your grandmother to. I considered myself knowledgable in my area and discovered a program again the other day.  When I first took note of the program a few years ago it didn't fit our needs and I forgot about it until someone brought it to my attention last week and I realized it would be perfect. (Last week I realized I no longer have to search out Velcro shoes for my SO, because while they were necessary at one time so he could put on and take off his own shoes but a friend pointed out I put on and take off his shoes so who cares if they tie or Velcro). 

Just try to be supportive of your mom personally as well. This is scary for everyone involved but even if she is in denial, it must be terrifying. If you can bring her favorite lunch by, or have a pizza delivered:) I have a dear friend who visits once a month and sits with my SO for a few hours and pushes me out of the house to do something for myself. Last month she was on vacation across the globe on the day of her normal visit. I received a call from her the day before and she asked me if I would be home. Around the time she normally shows up the doorbell rang and it was a grocery store delivery guy with a few staples and one of my favorite candy bars. It was kind and I know that she spent less than a meal out, in fact the call may have cost more than the groceries! It doesn't have to be a grand gesture though, sometimes just a call or a card that says you are thinking of her will do it!

I just hope something can be done at the early stages..
Thanks. Ye she does..
Thank you and others who replied. Before she sees a doctor, shall I talk to her and tell her that she has a problem? I'm not sure if it helps if she knows she has an issue.
I would speak to her about it in a supportive and comforting way. Make sure she doesn't feel accused. Tell her you are asking her to make a doctors appointment and have it checked out. If she resists ask her to do it as a personal favor to you. It will probably go very smoothly, but if it does not stay calm and either way make sure her doctor is informed of what is happening and take care of yourself as well. Feel free to reach out for support anytime. 
Sorry for what your going through my father was diagnosed 2 days ago.  It's hard to talk to them about it because they may get agitated but we kept it light and funny and my dad complied with getting the tests done.  Go to a geriatric memory Doctor as soon as you can so you can get answers.  Best of luck to you and your family.
