Were the classes in person or online?  I've gotta get off my ass and contact the local Alzheimer's Society.

I'm in the same boat as you.  I try to hang out with my mom so my stepdad (primary caregiver) can have a break for a nap/shopping/just get away.

I think the key for him has been keeping up with his music.  Maybe a little bit of time with his friend Captain Morgan.

If your stepdad has hobbies that get him away for a bit, I'm sure that would help.
Why don't you teach him? If he can't focus on a book, maybe read a training program yourself (I recommend the savvy caregiver program because it is easy to implement) and have sessions where you teach him strategies? Maybe have them take place outside the home so that it feels more relaxed. 
I would recommend setting up a care consultation with someone at the Alzheimer's Association.  For anyone that's interested, this is the 24/7 helpline: 1-800-272-3900.
Hello, this is the best advice for you..How to deal a person with Alzheimer’s disease. http://bit.ly/2ehPmp4.. Hope this would help...
The classes were in person.  First was just a two hour "understanding dementia" class - but I got so much out of just talking with the other people there.  I took two others since - one on legal/financial options and another on...something I can't remember.

Stepdad doesn't have many hobbies anymore.  He has some church friends who come visit and talk once a week, he talks on his phone with friends a couple times a day and does Facetime with his grandkids.  Diabetes rules out the Captain.  ;)  The other part of the problem is that mom sticks to him like glue - seriously, he can't leave the room for more than a couple minutes without her going to go look for him.  His main relief is when I'm there (she'll instead stick to me), but I'm only there a weekend at a time.
I just looked up Savvy Caregiver - looks like they have some DVDs, I'll have to check those out.  Thanks!
That's very similar to my situation.  On a bad day my mom will ask where he is every 15 minutes if he goes out.

Since your stepdad is into Facetime, maybe he'd be interested in chatting with people over Skype or at least forums like alzconnected.org?

I'm really hoping to get in on some meetings just to hear how other people are dealing with this.  Since I'm not there daily I try to make my time at their house worthwhile, but usually end up just watching movies with my mother.
