Dementia can only be 100% diagnosed after death in an autopsy unfortunately. 

To be diagnosed effectively, your dad needs to go see his doctor. It may not be a dementia, it could be any number of reversible issues. Dementias take a long time to diagnose and tend to be diagnosed when no other cause can be found.

Regarding your question about type of Dementia. If your dad were found to have a dementia purely caused by strokes then it would be a vascular dementia, which typically progresses due to further TIA's (transient ischemic attacks) and strokes. However, while vascular dementia is one of the most common another type is referred to as a "mixed" dementia which means it has multiple causes, for example a mixture between vascular causes and alzheimers disease, so really it depends on the type of Dementia he is hesitantly diagnosed with.

Dementias caused by alzheimers disease have a different progression compared to vascular dementias. With an alzheimers dementia, the progression can be viewed as a steady slope with a variable gradient. With vascular dementias, it is more a mix of steps and plateaus, with variable amounts of time between them. However it is important to remember than each individuals dementia will progress differently, no two cases are the same.

I hope that helps a bit... I would like to point out that I do not have experience of diagnosing individuals, I am a dementia specialist carer. If you have any other questions I will try to answer them the best I can!
More likely than something like Alzheimers is the possibility that the stroke has damaged the language centers of his brain.  Working with a therapist who specializes in stroke patients would be likely to help him.
He should have an appointment with his neurologist for a proper diagnosis. 
MedlinePlus, from the National Library of Medicine, has some really good information on dementia to help you understand how it is diagnosed at https://medlineplus.gov/dementia.html. I hope this helps. Best wishes. /da
It is really hard to say. Vascular Dementia is stroke related:
https://www.alz.org/dementia/vascular-dementia-symptoms.asp
I'm not saying it's that, but it is worth asking his physician about. Good luck to you and sorry you are going through this. 
It's sounds like his stroke could have caused damage to the frontal region of his brain (don't quote me on that). Cardiovascular issues can cause dementia. The best move would be to take him to a neurologist who can do the appropriate scans and tests to rule out other causes. In general with a stroke you would not expect the impairment to get worse if cardiovascular issues are well controlled. However, people can still go on to acquire something like Alzheimer's disease and they are still at risk for further impairment. 
Thank you so much. This helps a lot for now.

But if i understand correctly, the dementia caused by stroke once unleashed gets worse eventually regardless of whether new strokes occur or not?
Or does the leaps happen with new strokes?
> It's sounds like his stroke could have caused damage to the frontal region of his brain (don't quote me on that). Cardiovascular issues can cause dementia. The best move would be to take him to a neurologist who can do the appropriate scans and tests to rule out other causes. In general with a stroke you would not expect the impairment to get worse if cardiovascular issues are well controlled. However, people can still go on to acquire something like Alzheimer's disease and they are still at risk for further impairment. 

~ */u/DuffThePsych*
In my experience the progression happens with new strokes or TIA's. A TIA is basically a mini stroke.

It's possible to have a vascular dementia that never progresses, but it's also possible to have a vascular dementia that progresses in days or weeks.
............
