His primary care doctor can take action on this if you raise the concern. There are also "adaptive" driving programs that can actually do a behind the wheel test (that isn't affiliated with the DMV, so they won't strip his license). Maybe you can get him to do one of those?

In regards to the not getting tested for dementia, it is important to try to urge him to in any way that you can. Medications like Aricept can help slow the progression of dementia, but only if you catch it early enough to make a difference. 
In the US, Occupational Therapists do driving assessments. You could ask his physician for referral.
Yes, with dementia, it's not vision that's the problem per se. It's that their reaction time is so horrible. I am in a similar boat with my mother. I have taken to sabotaging her car. I got her doctor to put a temporary restriction on her license, but I am afraid that is about to lift. You can try contacting your grandfather's GP about restricting his driving. You can deflate his tires, or drain his battery by leaving the lights on. These are all things that we learn to do. The thought of my mom on the road is simply terrifying. 
My grandparents both didn't stop driving until they were in serious accidents. (Papi a three car pileup, Lita when she drove straight through someone's garage and totalled two cars and knocked out the back wall.) Lita still thinks she's going to drive again when we buy a new car which we've made clear isn't happening, but she's stubborn as a mule. I've been looking for a way to take her license away (she's over 85, I know the DMV does tests for that) but have never heard of an adaptive driving program. Is it just an assessment? I might be able to talk her into that if we get a new car. Will look into it. Thank you.
Pbi, Aricept does not slow the progression of dementia, sadly:( It masks some of the symptoms at the early stages, that is all. No slows this monster down, unfortunately. 
I've urged him to get tested, but he says there is nothing wrong. He can't even sign his name like he used to.  He says he won't show me his signature because of security reasons, which we all know is BS.  He mainly does a simple cursive signature which is NOTHING like his real signature. 

What really aggravates me is that it will be harder on my grandmother if he doesn't get any kind of help.  

As far as the car, he's about to go to the DMV to get his license renewal.  He won't let me go with him.  


He's got kind of a new car, and if I kill the battery, he'll just get a new one.  He knows how to inflate his tires, etc.  He refuses to accept anything is wrong.  Its so frustrating.  And if you even hint at bringing up the word, its a huge insult to him and argument and disrespect. 
It varies by region, but typically they are trained to help people adapt to disabilities while driving and they can do behind the wheel assessments to either identify areas that they can help or suggest that you don't drive at all. You can also just have the doctor suspend their license and they would have to test to get it back. 
It really depends on how you define it. It will not slow the progression of the disease causing the dementia. However it can maintain cognition at a less severe stage for some time. To families if their loved one can stay at a stage 1 impairment level for longer, they would consider that a slowing of the progression even though the disease process is still going forward at the same rate. 
Sorry:( My mother will eventually figure out how to call someone to fix her battery. It's a never ending battle for us. 
Having the doctor suspend her license seems like the best course of action, I think, in our current situation. Thank you!
In other words, it alleviates symptoms for a relatively short period early on in the disease process. But it absolutely doesn't slow the progression of the disease. 
Right the difference is between dementia which is a description of functioning and Alzheimer's etc which would be the disease causing that dementia. So it can slow the progression of dementia or stop someone from moving from mild cognitive impairment to dementia for a time, but it's a bandaid and won't actually stop the disease process. 
No. The disease moves at the same rate. One goes from stage to stage at the same rate with or without Aricept. Aricept alleviates some of the symptoms associated with MCI/early stage Alzheime'rs memory loss. It does not slow the progression of the disease and no scholarly/medical source will say that. 
"Researchers are looking for new ways to treat Alzheimer's. Current drugs help mask the symptoms of Alzheimer's, but do not treat the underlying disease or delay its progression. "
http://www.alz.org/research/science/alzheimers_disease_treatments.asp
*Edited for typo
