>If a person has dementia just from aging

You don't suffer from dementia just from aging. 

There are mild, normal changes to cognition and memory due to age. These are well classified. When you deviate from the acceptable changes caused by age, that is when a pathological disorder is considered. Dementia is not a disease also, but a catch all term for a variety of disorders affecting memory. 

So to answer your direction question, there are no medicines, since mental changes from natural aging are not pathological. 

You could investigate other ways to keep your brain healthy -- low fat diet, vitamin supplementation, exercise, etc.  
Benefits from drug therapy for dementia patients is minimal and shortlived.  What *does* seem to help the most is exercise.  The best thing you can do for yourself and your loved ones is take them for a walk.
Some medications to ask your doctor about would be Aricept, Namenda, and Exelon. I've been a geriatric nurse for >11yrs and these are the most common that I have seen to treat Alzheimer's/Dementia. Exelon also comes as a patch, but it is expensive I've heard. These drugs seem to do a decent job of maintaining a level of function if their disease hasn't advanced too far already. If you observe someone taking these meds you might think, wow...is this drug even really helping them? BUT I've seen where these drugs were discontinued for some people and then they rapidly declined. So I think they do help. Again, talk to your doctor. Good luck 
It's possible that turmeric, a spice popular in India, could help:

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/m/pubmed/26114940/?i=5&from=dementia%20turmeric

And most importantly, exercise your brain! Read, learn (there are free academies like Khan's, which are wonderfull!) get new hobbies, stay socially engaged, get pen pals. These things can cost little, but can help keep your brain going. 

https://www.khanacademy.org/

There are OTC substances that can help, such as caffeine, Coconut oil, even nicotine patches.

Read up on Bulletproof Coffee.

I take and do all of these things because I am 65 years old and have been diagnosed with early onset dementia. I believe I am slowing down the progress of the disease.
I love Khan Academy! 
They are really tremendous! When I was experiencing Cardio problems I ran through their Cardio related courses and was much better informed when I went for surgery.

They also have excellent sections on the physiology and electro chemistry of neurology.

