Neurologist.

Or just answer these questions.

How old are you, what are your other pathologies. How is your diet, do you exercise? What is the quality of your sleep regime?


Depends where you are; in the UK its an Older Adult Psychiatrist that leads the clinic. Other countries its a Neurologist, others its Geriatrician. You really want to be looking for your local memory clinic for a comprehensive assessment that normally includes input from all these specialities and OT/ Neuropsychometry/ Social Work.
I am 63. Healthy diet. Physically active but no extra exercise. Like to sleeps at least nine hours. What do you think?
Thank you.

Ok, we have some basis for comparison. I am 65, retired, with a whole host of pathologies, including coronary artery disease and early onset dementia. I don't specifically do exercise but I am quite active, such as volunteering at my local Habitat, playing music, fixing Hammond organs and Tube amps, etc, etc.

About 5 years ago I started having cognitive and memory problems, leading to my losing my job as an IT Project manager. I played around with smart drugs (and still take some)and tDCS, which I seldom use any more.

Here is what I use to help me with memory and cognition:

BulletProof Coffee in the morning (look it up).

Nicotine patch (3-7mg) if its going to be a demanding day.

Theanine, to help with the stimulant induced shakes and chronic anxiety.

Smart drugs such as Aniracetam, Acetyl L-Carnitine (ALCAR) and Choline (such as in eggs). These combine to give one more AcetylCholine which is an important neurotransmitter.

Modafinil (the only prescription drug) meant to help people with narcolepsy and Sleep Apnea, the latter of which I have.

I'm going to look up that bullet proof coffee. I always wake up in the morning in a daze. I have very vivid dreams that include a lot of everyday stuff (like where I left my reading glasses). I think it's called lucid dreaming. My dreams will include aspects of prior dreams, deja vue? Actually very entertaining but I always tell people to not ask me anything until I've had my first cup of coffee.
Nicotine patch? are you quitting smoking or is there a therapeutic effect?  
Lucid dreaming is very bad for me, based on combat related PTSD. I'm an insomniac and therefore dose myself heavily with melatonin (15mg) to get to sleep quickly and avoid remembered dreams. 7 hours will do it most of the time.
Cognitive and creative stimulant. I quit smoking 4 years ago.
