The Alzheimer's association message boards are very active and there are many people in the same situation as you who can probably help.  You can also call their 800 number for great advise and local resources. 
Depending on the resources available (va, etc), a home health care agency can be a great resource for companion care until he needs personal care. 
Companion care is someone who will interact with him, keep him safe ... with my Fil, she takes him for walks, brings puzzles, talks to him and is really really good at keeping him appropriately engaged.  Right now, she comes three days a week for four hours at a time.  
A personal care aide can come into play when activities of daily living become challenging - hygiene, dressing, showering.  
I've been really happy with companion care... it keeps him engaged, happy, gets him outside more. 
Where do you live?

For the time being I will assume you are in the US, as that is the area I have the most information about. Check out your local council on aging, find out if your father is a veteran as the VA had
Many resources and can even provide in home help free of charge. There are a few other resources linked on r/alzheimers sidebar that may help as well. 
I would do it as soon as possible. The earlier he becomes accustomed to having aides/companions, the easier it will be when he requires constant hands-on care. He may also enjoy and benefit from the stimulation of a new person to talk with. Alternatively, you could maybe try a day program a few times per week.

I'd probably look for someone on care.com or another similar site, or ask around at community groups you may frequent (churches, etc). Depending on his level of need, you might be OK with having someone as a 'companion' (chatting, light lunches, etc) rather than hands-on dementia care (help toileting, dressing, constant attention and diversion, etc). 
You may be able to get some assistance from Medicare. Contact a local dementia support group, or if there is none, contact some nurses and healthcare workers at a nursing home or senior care center. 
