If you're really worried, go see a doctor and get checked out. But I wouldn't live your life worried about this. You're 29. Lots of life still yet to live even if you're diagnosed one day. Just breathe, relax and write things down more if you have to. 
There are many things that can cause these symptoms. Medications, many other illnesses, lack of sleep, and just plain old stress.  It sounds like you are concerned so make an appointment with your general practitioner and share those concerns.  In the mean time we are here if you need to talk. 
Hi there, 

I'm no expert but I forget things too, then again...I have PTSD and that has screwed with my memory in some ways. 

  I don't think it's anything to worry about. 
a few weeks ago, I forgot my debit card PIN -- twice within the same month on an account I've had for YEARS. I had them send me the PIN again, and was okay for about a week when I forgot it again, while I was on a trip. I had to call the bank and they provided me with an emergency PIN to be able to change it at any ATM (so i had to change it to something really simple).

I typically have a really good memory, but these incidents shook me. I think the problem for me was that I had recently changed my diet and it was affecting my brain function. I changed it back and I haven't had any issues. 

If you can't think of anything you've done differently lately that could cause it, or if you've been under a lot of stress or something, then you should definitely talk to your doctor.
You should definitely get it checked out, I had a weird folic acid deficiency and it got so bad that I couldn't drive anywhere or even watch a movie because I would forget everything after like 5 minutes.
At 29, unless early onset AD is in your family, I wouldn't be the least worried. 
Pretty normal feeling.  My grandpa died of it and now my dad has it and I'm living with him as his caretaker, he's 69.  I'm 30 (male) and have had the same worries, but I also have smoked a lot of weed in my life so I'm attributing it to that.  They both got Alzheimer's in their 60s so I'm just guessing that that is when I will get it too.  BUT, I do have a friend whose wife started having symptoms at age 28, so... shrug, it could happen.
