Nope she will love this.  Also have a phone call with her and have her go through the book with you on the phone.

I did something similar for my grandma and she loved it.

Also, a hand written note with the book would be nice.  My grandma reads my letters over and over and over.  We used to email a lot but now she doesn't have a computer in the home and my letters mean a lot to her, more than phone calls I think because she can read them when she wants and as many times as she wants.
That's exactly the right kind of gift.  You could also do one with old family pictures, as those times might be easier for her to remember now.
That's a lovely gift.  Get it for her, and if there is a family member with her who can set up Skype, you could visit with her as she goes through it.  
Do it. They do not want to forget. And when she CAN remember she will know why you can't be there. Any bits of joy and familiarity you can give her you should, without hesitation. 
Yes yes yes! !!!
You could also include a little story showing what is happening in each picture.  Stick it in a scrapbook--now when your grandma has visitors and the visitor needs something to talk to grandma about, they can go through the book together.
This is such a sweet and thoughtful gift. I totally understand your concearn, but I agree with the others here: you really dont need to worry. Write a sweet note for her on the first page, telling her how much you love her and call her on the phone to wish her a merry christmas.

As someone who has worked on a nursing home i can only say how big a help this kind of books are - tocl caregivers as well. Next time you visit, show her main caregiver the book, maybe even write a small letter explaning who people in the album is - this way they have something to talk to her about when they help her and take care of her. :) Knowing a lot about the person you help is such a gift for both parts - its way easier to follow the thoughts and actions and reactions, and you have something to talk about when they feel that everything is horrible and they dont have anyone. 

All the best to you and your family! Your grandmother is very lucky to have you ❤
I am positive that she will like this Christmas gift. It’s a sweet and touching way of saying that you think about her all the time. Giving her something familiar is good for her memory and can make her feel happy too.
