Hi.  I work in the Alzheimer's field and spend hours and hours a week reading the current literature from medical journals around the world.  Adopt a strict Mediterranean diet, lots of olive oil and MTC oil (or coconut oil) and at least 40 min aerobic exercise 4 days a week.  It may slow her progression... And for you with a strong family history it may help you avoid it all together.
My father-in-law was diagnosed last week. The biggest thing that helped my wife and I was just reading up on it: treatments, timelines, tips for slowing progress, etc. We found that there was a lot we could do and that the worst symptoms were still years (if not decades) off. Reading about it and talking openly about our concerns helped a lot.
As we've watched my MiL's decline, I've tried to make sure family members remember that it's ok to find it funny sometimes, and to understand that they are in a grieving process. You can be absolved of guilt when you feel good feelings when you're grieving for someone who has died, but losing someone a piece at a time makes this hard, no one gives you the support you'd normally get if someone dies.  
So far, mom has done some pretty funny things, and it's better to laugh/cry than to get frustrated and sorry for her/ourselves.  
- She says there's a blind jazz musician living just up the street.  
- She found a relative's guitar in the closet, assumed she must have stolen it, and tried to get rid of the evidence...  
- She was hoping to take the train from New-Zealand to the pyramids.  
- She said the government called and asked if she'd help with "south america"  
A short list but you get the idea. I think it's very common for people to have problems with the person driving, with bank accounts, with wandering, with anger.  They screw up simple things with their health and hygiene. They say mean shit to you and forget who you are. Just take it a crisis at a time and remember that at one point you were a baby screaming at them.
[deleted]
Outside of the great advice already here, is take care of yourself.  My grandmother had Alzheimer's and Parkinson's.  My mom never would take a break or anytime for herself, and ended up with other health problems of her own.  If you want to be a caregiver, you have to be in good physical and mental health yourself.  Accept some help. Spend a weekend away. It is OK to do something for yourself, even if it is something small. 
Thank you 
I still have a lot to read up on,  it's the fact it's such a fresh shock that has me unable to focus on the reading 
Are there many tips you found for slowing progress?
That's definitely been helpful to me remembering that she took care of me as a child,  she has been very lucid over the last few days which has been brilliant. 
Fingers crossed,  I'm looking into trials,  marijuana treatment,  hyperbaric treatment ( to deliver oxygen directly to the brain in the hopes of opening pathways)  it's all still a shock to me at this stage. 
Do you have any tips on slowing the development? Thanks 
Thanks 
Just some general things that many places seem to suggest helps: doing mental puzzles, exercising, eating well, and quitting smoking/drinking. There are also some medications that if taken early on are shown to slow the process (my FIL is already on one). Then, of course, there are the less researched/reputable methods: lots of vitamins and supplements *may* help, but I'm kind of skeptical of that.
Yeah good days and bad for sure. We recently hit a new low of MiL getting into liquor; not moderating or knowing how much she already consumed so she got pretty bad and we finally convinced dad to not keep it in the house any more. Hopefully we'll have some more good days ahead here.  
What's really interesting is which things cause them to get upset. It's almost randomized. They have fewer/no coping skills, but they also won't remember stuff that would normally bother them. I think what can be really difficult is if they are harping on something that isn't true, you might as well not argue with them because even if you get them to accept reality, just wait 5 minutes and you'll be back into the same argument. 
I remember my grandmother,  who also had it,  would randomly have the same question /statement over and over.  As a child I found it funny 
