She's looking for her childhood home with the people in it that she knew when she was young (Mom, Dad, siblings, cousins, etc).  It's very common in dementia sufferers.   Distraction, promises to go "tomorrow", etc all work to help calm the associated agitation.  
As the disease progresses, the memories that she has access too are older and older. In her head/reality she could very well be 30/40+ years younger and wondering why she isn't home, especially if she at some point in time lived in a different house. They may not even be complete memories, but her subconsciously trying to fill in the gaps of the bits and pieces she has.

Have you tried asking her what year it is, to see what her reality orientation is?

Currently my 77yo grandma with Alzheimer's seems sharp as a tack when you talk to her until you start talking about something that would orient her to time and place. In her reality she is about 40 years younger and thinks that I am my mother in her teens (I'm not in my teens but I look super young). She goes grocery shopping and buys food to feed a family of 6 instead of just her
It is a case of Dementia which causes poor functioning of the brain. As a result, the patient suffers with the loss of memory, trouble with thinking, mood swings and many other behavioral disorders. There are other different types of dementia and it can happen due to various reasons. You can find a very useful resource on this type of problems at the blog written by us: 
http://blog.newportcare.com/understanding-dementia-caring-tips-deal-dementia-patients/
A lot of times, it seems like asking to "go home" is asking to be in a familiar place, with familiar people, where she knows what to do and who everyone is. Sometimes they're referring to an actual place, but sometimes it's a state of mind. 

I'm sure you've realized that rationalizing and explaining doesn't work. Have you tried distracting her, by asking what the house I should like, what she does there, what the yard is like, what about the neighbors... sometimes talking about it is enough. Other times, a switch to a different topic is best.. asking about things she likes, what her dmaily was like growing up... safe topics. 

As far as happening early AM or late at night, it might be because she's tired. It might also be because morning and night are typically the times we are at home, with the middle of the day spent at work and school. Her body may be sort of hard wired to think she should be home. Try playing music she likes when she starts getting worked up, and keeping busy with simple, calming tasks like folding laundry, sorting buttons, etc.
sundowners 
As a example my mother insist on me driving her to Croatia from south Australia 
To a property that doesn't exist 
Trying to show her maps 
Didn't work 
Medication and lie
Too busy to drive you 
Don't have the keys to open the front 
Currently what I am going through 
She will get angry 
The calmer you are the better and easier 
Take a time out if you have to 
Sorry there's no easy solution 
Get in touch with your local dementia help line
Time is what you need to learn how to deal 
Also don't trust any lies 
My mother recently learned she will mess with my head 
Re my father is not my father 
Fun proved her wrong easy fix except for me digging paper work to prove her wrong 
Best wishes 
You need to find a help line 

Yes! I work in memory care and this is accurate. I've heard people call them 'theraputic lies'. We have a resident who always asks if her husband is coming to get her and we always tell her a certain time. If we explained the truth, that he died several years ago, it would just make her upset, anxious, and believe we were lying to her and keeping her against her will. 

The biggest thing I have noticed has been they just want to be listened to. Whether they can form coherent sentences/ideas or not, they want to feel heard and validated. OP, try the best you can to listen to her and ask questions about what the home looks like or where it is. If she cant answer, reassure her that its okay to forget and sometimes we all forget things. try to distract her with something you know she enjoys. 
And music does wonders, even at the latest stages of dementia! I have seen people who can't string together a sentence be able to remember the tune and lyrics of their favorite songs. 
This is what I used to do when my other was going through the phase of persistently wanting to go home despite living with me for 5 years ha. I used to say, have a cup of tea first, or its too late today so have a good sleep for the trip tomorrow, even have a small makeup bag she can pack and repack simple things like her toothbrush, brush, deodorant, etc in so she's ready. 

My biggest problem was, when she was in the early stages of dementia she made me agree to always tell her the truth about how she was doing and what was going on, and it was really really difficult to accept that in fact the kind thing was to lie to her. So sad. 
