Find local orgs - this is one place to start: http://www.alz.org/apps/findus.asp
But also just google "arizona alzheimers" and there are smaller, local groups.

If a nearby chapter offers the "understanding dementia" class, or any class, really - take it.  You'll learn things, and also have the unique opportunity to be in a room full of people dealing with what you're dealing with.

The Alz association might also have some legal classes and other stuff.  Make sure your dad gets her to execute a power of attorney and health care proxy while she still has capacity.

Talk to her lots.  Ensure her mind stays stimulated (surround her with puzzles, hobby supplies, music, whatever she likes).  Ask her questions about her life and your childhood.  Short term memory may be shot, but she'll still be able to excavate some old ones, at least for a while. 
Spend as much time as you can with her. Make her know and them some that you love her. 
Read The 36 Hour Day. Lots of good info. 

She and Dad need to have a conversation about her wishes- finances, at what point should she be placed in a care home, living will, etc. She needs to sign over POA and guardianship to a trusted family member or friend. 
Thank you so much! After my grandpa passed a few years ago, she got all the legal stuff in order- will, poa, even her funeral costs have been taken care of. I'll ask her about her health care orders, I don't know if she has that situated yet. Do you know if there's another subreddit for support? I just skimmed this one and saw mostly articles. 
I plan on bringing her coffee and donuts this week and having a nice talk with her. I know the test agitated her, and she's down about the diagnosis, so I wanted to give her time to let it settle. 
Thank you for the suggestion, I'll look for it. After my grandpa passed a few years ago, she got all the legal paperwork taken care of- will, poa, even her funeral costs are covered. I don't know if she has any medical paperwork, but I will find out. Do you know if there's another subreddit for support? I skimmed this one, but mostly saw articles. Is there one for more emotional support? 
If you're local chapter isn't providing an educational program near your area, you can get some of the training online.  http://training.alz.org/

I would also recommend calling the Alzheimer's Association 24/7 Helpline at 1.800.272.3900.  

I work for the Association and lurk around the subreddit.  So if you need to talk to someone, please message me!
I wish this one had more support and fewer articles.  The forums at alzconnected.org seem to be really active, with people seeming to connect well.  The /r/dementia sub is more active than this one and seems more support-focused/personal.
Great, that's an important step. Make sure you guys have access to all that paperwork. 

There's not a really active group on Reddit, but there's one on Facebook I love, if you're on there. I'll PM you the name. 
I didn't know about the online training, thank you!
Thank you! I'm sure I'll need someone to talk to soon and I will keep you in mind. It's still early and she did really well over the holiday. It meant a lot to her to have all the family together and we had a great time. I think it helped her feel a little more normal. 
Subbed! Thank you 
Please do! Thanks again 
I'd like the name, too, please.
I'm glad the holidays went well.  I've heard from many caregivers find the holidays challenging as the years go by.  

Since you mentioned that she is in the early stages, for me the most important thing in the early stages is the interaction with other people.  Sometimes what happens because of all the emotions and confusion, the person with the disease will close themselves in.  Physical and mental activity is important too!
