I work in memory care

The main advice would be to CYA.  If this is an ongoing new thing and it's just with you and no other caregivers then try to bring other caregivers to assist when you work with her.  Or trade for other patients.  And document her accusations.  Can't hurt to bring it up with your supervisor and coworkers.  

The thing is that this is fairly common in my experience along with accusations of stealing things.  Every time I have dealt with it it has just been part of the dementia and everyone got accused, so no one took them seriously because we all knew them.  

One coworker with 30 years exp was accused for the first time and the state and ombudsman were called.  But of course they found no wrongdoing with her or the facility.  But still, it doesn't look good.  That is why I say document and talk to others because if the state comes in they will talk to everyone and read everything. 

But as far as dealing with the accusatory dementia patient, usually just calmly telling them you didn't hit them and ask them why they are saying that.  There might be some need that they aren't able to communicate and the accusation is just a way to get your attention.  Maybe she just felt you were being a little rough and in a hurry.  I've had residents tell me I'm hurting them but when I press for details they weren't really in pain, just discomfort.  But if they say I'm hurting them it's more likely to make me stop doing whatever it is they don't like at the moment.
I forgot to mention they hired me privately for everyday care and they're the only person I'm caring for at the moment full time. I have worked for other patients privately that are family friends of theirs. That is where they got the recommendation. The only reason I'm not working for those families anymore is because who I was caring for eventually passed. I have worked in a a nursing home before that has a locked down dementia unit. 

I'm not worried about the dementia patient. She says really off the wall things like any other dementia patient. It's just the husband, I'm worried how he has perceived it. I know how to handle telling it to supervisors and what not, but in this case it is me handling it directly with the family. And the husband only understands dementia to a point. He thinks she understands and perceives more so than she actually does... even when the specialist she sees refuses to even do the MMSE anymore because they know she's going to completely fail it and has scheduled no further appointments.

It can irk my nerves sometimes because I get to the house and he has obviously let her run wild without supervision. He leaves her to go to the bathroom by herself and she doesn't wipe properly and I have to clean her up. I can leave on a Friday and come back on a Monday and she'll sometimes be in the same clothes that I left her in. And he is perfectly capable of caring for her in most aspects, I'm just there so he doesn't have to do it all the time/so he can go out.... and because the sons knew this was going on and wanted someone else there. They are the ones that pay me, not the husband. 

I've tried to explain these things to him before. That she's not capable of caring for herself in any way. He acknowledges it for that moment, but goes back to believing she can. I know it's the denial.

I just don't know how to handle him. He seemed okay when I went there today, but I'm not exactly sure. 
