Hi, I'm sorry you are going through that. It's so hard.

I think as long as she isn't a danger to herself, I think it's better to remain in her own home with help. This is a good reference:

http://www.alz.org/i-have-alz/if-you-live-alone.asp

I suggest you reach out to your local Alz chapter for support. They will have tips and information for the both of you and may be able to recommend some specialized in-home help. They will also know more about Medicare.

Good luck.
1.If we are talking about Alzheimer's disease, change in environment can sometimes cause memory issues to increase.  So with that in mind, we can say that a person who is showing signs of progressive memory loss will do better in a familiar setting.  Don't get me wrong, moving your loved one into an assisted living isn't a bad idea, but you should be aware of the pros and cons.  

2.In Home Care vs Home Healthcare

* In Home Care: These agencies typically provide non-medical personal care services, assisting with daily activities such as bathing, dressing, and meal preparation.  However, some home care agencies also provide Home Healthcare services which can vary from one provider to the next.  Home care services are typically not covered by Medicare or Medicaid and are private pay.  Also called Home Companion, Private Duty Aide, or Private Nurse.

* Home Healthcare: Can include skilled nursing, physical therapy, speech-language pathology, occupational therapy, medical social work, home health aide and medical supplies when they are medically necessary to help treat, restore, rehabilitate or sustain a patient in the home.  Physician orders are required for these services and the patient must meet certain guidelines to qualify.  Medicare, Medicaid and Private Insurance may cover these services when the appropriate criteria are met.

* The person in charge of her care or the family should be the one who needs to determine what kind of assistance she might need.  Make sure to always include the person with memory issues in the decision.

3.In-Home Care services are typically not covered by Medicare or Medicaid and are private pay.  So far, Medicare has not yet decided if they will cover in-home care for people with dementia, memory issues, or Alzheimer's disease.

4.The advantages of getting a formal Alzheimer's diagnosis are as follow: Better care, the possibility of not being Alzheimer's disease and being another type of dementia, and finding other causes such as UTI that may cause dementia like symptoms.  As for disadvantages, I'm not really sure... 
This is a terrible disease and I'm so sorry you and your family are going through this.  Home is generally more comfortable and easier on the person with Alzheimer's/dementia , but can't be done without support eventually.  

To the best of my knowledge medicare will not pay for year round home health care.  They will pay for it when needed for a nurse (normally involving injuries that need dressing), physical therapy after a fall, occupational therapy, or speech therapy.  Medicare also limits the amount of visits for these annually. Medicaid (for lower income) often will pay for home health so it's worth checking to see if she qualifies. 

If your mother or a spouse of hers was in the military she may qualify for assistance from the [Veterans Affairs office](https://www.va.gov) which can include money to pay for help, as well as home health workers. While this is somewhat based on her income and service of the veteran, they allow you to "back out" any medical costs before declaring income making many qualify. 
It's a headache to set up, and can take months but can make a huge difference. 

Check [ALZ.org](http://m.alz.org/early-stage-caregiving.asp) for local groups as some towns have day trip groups and other things that can add excitement to her life as well as adult day care etc.  [eldercare.gov](http://www.eldercare.gov/Eldercare.NET/Public/Index.aspx) may be of help as well.  

I also recommend setting up a network of friends and family.  Yours, hers, neighbors etc.  I sent out an frantic blanket email at a really difficult time asking for people who would be willing to give me a soft commitment to see my S.O. Who has Alzheimer's once a month and stay for an hour or two.  I try to stagger them so there is one per week, he gets visitors, I get time away and there are extra people to notice changes. 

If she has not been diagnosed yet it might be worth it to apply for long term care insurance before having the official diagnosis.  She may not get it or it may been insanely expensive, but unless she lives with family she is most likely going to assisted living (medicare doesn't cover at all) before being ill enough to qualify for a nursing home (may not be a nice place).  The financial costs of this disease are staggering and long term care insurance would be handy if possible.  

Eventually you will probably want a formal diagnosis as it may help doctors to provide and agree on the most effective treatments. Just to prepare you the most effective treatments are not very effective in my experience , but for all I know they have made a huge difference in the way things have turned out for us as I can't compare it to no treatment.  

When my SO was first diagnosed we used [this pill dispenser](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B002TSHGIU/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_api_MJ3pyb5AH7BZN).  It rotates so only that doses pills are available and beeps until it is turned over so the pills come out.  It's not foolproof but it worked for us.  I bought a bowl that looked like none of our other ones and would check it to make sure pills weren't there.  The clear lid lets you see skipped doses that were not dumped.  Now I use it to keep me from forgetting to give a dose! (I don't work for any product I post here and get nothing from suggesting them)

Medalerts are also helpful for people living alone or left alone for periods of time.  We used one from a company that monitored it for a time (life alert) but after many accidental alerts and ambulances showing up [we switched to this one](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01CLSIS9I/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_api_EP3pybVE2D2SF) which is basically a base with speaker and mic that plugs into a landline and a pendant with speaker and mic that acts like a cordless phone.  When pushed the button is set to call 4 programmed numbers and if no one answers it will dial 911.  No monitoring fees, No false alarms since and when it's not urgent I can talk to him and calm him down while I make my way to him.  When it is urgent I can hang up with him and call 911 for him and give actual information such as address medications etc.  

When we were hit with this I was shocked that medicare didn't cover assisted living, as well as many other things. I still can't believe that a disease that is the 6th cause of death in the US has very little in the way of a social net.  Please reach out here or PM me any time even if you just need to scream into the void.
There will come a time she cannot stay alone in her home.  Best you start thinking about that and looking into it, before the need is high.  your local support organization can help.  alzheimer's is a terrible illness and eventually they can forget the basics of survival, like swallowing.  so living alone is impossible.
Thanks for the reply.  This is very helpful information.
Thanks for the very thorough and thoughtful response.  It is really helpful.

Regarding Home Healthcare...she has high blood pressure and low thyroid function.  These conditions are not in control, probably because she is forgetting to take her meds.  Do you have any idea if this would be sufficient to justify home healthcare (instead of just in home care)?

Great write up and info.
Also make sure the primary care giver (be it your self or someone else) takes care of themselves first.  Airplane oxygen mask rules, secure your mask before helping the family member.  It is entirely too easy to get caught up in caregiving putting off a non immediate need for one that seems more pressing.  I'm younger than my SO and I felt this meant I could do it all and do it alone.  I put a tremendous pressure on myself.  I skipped my doctor visits when they conflicted with my SO's, dental cleanings went out of the window for me.  My diet changed as I was spending more for favorite foods to encourage S.O. to eat so I spent less on me.  I was more willing to ignore the budget to provide happy adventures and make new memories (hopefully for both of us). The budget shortfalls hit me by design.  All of this happened slowly, and it didn't seem like a big deal or a bad decision at each instance but adding them all together and adding time meant they were terrible choices.  I wore myself thin and as a result provided worse care.  If you aren't the primary caregiver attempt to provide breaks for them and don't take no for an answer if they are stubborn like me:)
I would have to do more research on how Home Healthcare is determined... but it's usually done through the primary physician/doctor.  Make sure to bring up that she is living alone and are worried that she isn't taking her meds.
