Contact nursing homes in your area. Talk to the nurses who work there. Look for Alzheimers and Dementia support groups in your area.
I'm SO sorry to hear that- my grandmother had FTD and was later diagnosed with Behavioral Variant FTD (once she passed, we donated her brain for research). I can't even imagine what you're going through as a spouse with a young child, FTD is honestly a rollercoaster beginning years before a diagnosis is given. 
My mom actually is actually an LCSW focusing on Alzheimer's and caregivers in particular. I'm sitting with her right now and read your post to her and she say's to feel free to email her! Her email is nataly@alzcoach.com 




See if these sites can point you to some groups that fit your need:

- [Caring.com Online Support Groups](https://www.caring.com/support-groups)


- [+SupportGroups](https://dementia.supportgroups.com)
There is a page I follow on facebook called the Alzheimer's Reading Room. It has a ton of info and additional suggestions .  It's where I learned the difference between different types of dementia.

https://www.facebook.com/alzheimersreadingroom/

Good luck with everything
[deleted]
That's a great idea, and one that had not occured to me. We have an excellent non-profit hospice here with fantastic support groups, and Im sure they have dementia support groups. Going to look into it right now.

Edit: Wow! They actually have an FTD support group!! 
Thank you so much for the idea!!
This may come across as harsh sounding, but I actually feel lighter and a bit relieved that we have a name for what has been happening. There have been times over the past few years when I legitimately thought I must be the one losing my mind - he was so insistent that everything was my fault. 

And you are correct - it is a rollercoster long before diagnosis. We have been dealing with issues for about 5 years now, the past two years getting really bad. He's now having memory issues (completely forgetting pivotal conversations we've had multiple times, having to have the same conversations over and over) and the beginnings of motor issues. So, in terms of staging, I'm not sure if we are still early stage or nearing middle stage. Or if there may also be some type of motor neuron disease as well? 

It has wreaked havoc on our family. My 18 year old wants nothing to do with him after all of the hurt he has caused her (an emotionally healthy response, imo). Many women would have left years ago. At times, I feel really stupid to have stayed for so long. And, bonus - surprise baby added to the mix... I feel like a horrible mom.

I can't tell you have many books and websites I read on verbal abuse and narcissistic personality disorder over the past couple of years, trying to figure this out. It wasn't until he began having motor issues that I finally began to suspect something neurological.

Thank you for your comment, and please tell your mom thank you from me as well. I may take her up on her offer.
Thank you, and much appreciated. 

I will check it out.
Allow me to clarify. I am not looking into a hospice FTD support group because I feel like we need hospice. I have gone the hospice route with my aunt, father and both grandparents, and I know we are no where near that state of affairs. Rather, my local hospice is one of the largest not-for-profit hospices in the country, is very invested in dementia awareness, education and advocacy, and they are the only local organization organizing FTD support groups. That is the hospice connection.

Secondly, your response came across as rather flippant. I assure you, if you had any idea what I and my children have been through for the past few years, you might have chosen to be more compassionate and less condescending. I am not a newb, and these issues have been present for the past 5 years, severe for the past two. I am run down, worn, out, and demoralized.
