If it's just a quick "What do you want for lunch" I'd just go ahead and excuse yourself and interrupt... let her know you're listening but want to fix lunch while she's finishing her story. Also, depending on what stage she's at, I'd just fix her something without asking (unless she's extremely picky): decisions can be overwhelming so sometimes it's easier just to give her something you know she likes. 
You may have to get good at what I call the "therapeutic hand" it's basically a more gentle form of "talk to the hand". I have to do this often with patients of mine that jump into stories and tangents when there is actual important information that I need to get. I know it sounds silly, but as long as the hand is up, she might get the picture that it's your turn. 
My mom does something similar to this. Maybe try this: (speaking over her if necessary) first hold up two options so she has a visual (ham sandwich or soup for example). Point to them and gesture that you need a choice. If she doesnt stop talking, say loudly "Okay i will wait one more minute for an answer then I will choose what you're having for lunch." Then look at your watch and when a minute is up- start making her lunch.
True, I guess decisions can be hard at that state of confusion. I just want to give her as many options as possible because she is very upset about the lack of control she's feeling right now. She has a fit every time we don't let her drive (she could barely drive when she was healthy, now she's almost constantly hallucinating) so letting her pick the days of her appointments, what she has for lunch, which coffee sweetener she wants, it's really best I can offer her anymore. I am looking into support groups or elderly get togethers where she can do whatever she wants inside the activity center type place, she just can't wander off. I'm hoping that will give her enough control to let her relax on little things like what hour we go to the store.
She used to be a teacher so I may modify it to something more like raising my hand and see if the reflex is still there to stop and pay attention, thanks!
For lunch, try just giving her two options, and let her choose.

"For lunch, would you like grilled cheese or a ham sandwich?"

Oh like you have to do with kids! "Two pieces of broccoli or 4?" And at least two go down usually. dealing with demented people and 5 year olds seem to have some intense parallels. 
