My family and I just signed my grandfather up for a daycare of sorts where he can stay up to eight hours a day.  It's a center that specializes in helping elderly that have less cognitive abilities than normal.  There are nurses and volunteers that guide the group through a daily routine that has different activities built around a set schedule.  When I was there, they were having a bowling tournament set with pins from a child's toy set.  The day before, I was told they had a 'fishing rodeo' that was a kiddie pool filled with mechanical toy fish that bit rods assembled from a children's toy kit.  Everyone who was participating looked like they were having fun or had no idea what was going on, but they chose whether or not to participate.  I brought up my concern that this seemed like a daycare for children, but I have since been told by nurses and psychologists that what is important is making the patient think and using their motor skills in a safe and fun environment.

My grandfather is early stage LBD (minor hallucinations, forgets who family if not reminded constantly, repeats stories, doesn't know what year it is) and this kind of facility is perfect for him as he will be able to socialize with other people who are experiencing the same things he is (so he doesn't feel so alone and depressed).  This retreat will also ensure that he is participating in at least some of the daily activities, like exercise and math puzzles, to help keep him occupied and challenged.

My point is, you shit on (yes, you absolutely shit on it with your sarcastic remark and attitude) the facility that offered craft picture frame kits, but it could be the best option for you and your grandmother based on what you've described here.
I saw that you are in AZ. If you are in the Phoenix metro area, try contacting Hospice of the Valley for ideas. They are big on helping improve quality of life for those with dementia. They may be able to point you in the right direction.
Gotcha, I know that hospice is pretty involved in that stage as well though. Mostly patent advocate stuff. At least in Illinois, that's where my dad encountered the most end of life stuff.
I took my father (87yo) with dementia to an adult daycare to meet the director and take a tour. The place was great - there was a full kitchen with staff, a nurse, planned activities, outings, a meditation room, a man cave, a library, puzzles, games, movies and a therapy dog - it is perfect.  This was NOT a success - my father does not self-identify as "old" and does not view the others as his kind of people... he complained that nobody there could keep up a conversation (which is about the same for him, too)  I am so frustrated, I need to get him out of the house to meet people.  I may try to take him again to see if he can get some socialization.  As a parent, I am very familiar with child day care and was concerned about the adult version - but the adult version is much better. If you have one available it is definitely worth a try.
What is the name of this facility? 

And I would like to point out that hostility towards my sarcasm does not encourage behavior change on my end. Right now it is how I am coping with watching both of my grandmothers die one of the worst deaths possible. It is how I am dealing with the fact that genetically this is my inevitable future. Maybe I didn't handle it the best, but it was the best way I can handle my anger at the thought of my grandmother, a phenomenally intelligent and creative person. being reduced to a kids craft kit that would make my baby sister cry with boredom. I feel that sarcasm is better than binge drinking or Eating a full tub of ice cream by myself. 
Oh that's lovely! Do they push for putting them in old folks homes? We're trying to keep her home as long as humanly possible.
It's called The Retreat.  It's located in Pensacola, FL.

We're all going through similar tragedy.  I'm not in a sympathetic mood today, so your story doesn't touch me the way you had hoped.  Pick yourself up by your bootstraps and think logically, not emotionally.  
I take it you're not familiar with hospice? Hospice organizations exist to help families keep loved ones in their homes (during the end stages of life) for as long as possible. They provide nursing visits, CNA visits, social workers, counseling, etc. to the family. They do not provide round the clock care, but the services they provide are covered by Medicare. They focus on keeping the patient comfortable, rather than trying to "cure" the patient's condition. And, hospice is generally used when doctors think the patient has 6 months or less to live.

So, no - they don't push for putting people in care homes. Quite the opposite - they provide supports so that the patient can remain at home at the end of life.

Aaanyway, I'm not suggesting you contact hospice because your loved one *needs* hospice right now. Rather, I suggested it because they may have other resources available. They are big on dementia advocacy. They also have caregiver support groups, which you may find helpful:

https://www.hov.org/dementia-caregiver-support

Also, the Alzheimers Association has tons of support group meetings in the valley. You might get some ideas for local activities & resources by attending one:
http://www.alz.org/dsw/in_my_community_15665.asp
I was not looking for sympathy, simply to give you another perspective that perhaps lecturing strangers on Reddit and sarcasm are both coping techniques for being offended and hurt by the actions of another. I'm letting this thread die out, thank you for the name of that facility, I will have to see if there is an Arizona version.
Ah, no I did not know that. My understanding of hospice was that it was like the icu but for terminal people they can't really help. I have only just a week or so ago taken over my grandmothers schedule. Thank you for properly informing me! And I saw that alz has LOTS of stuff, unfortunately my grandmother has lbd and it makes her a little more complex (she could hallucinate anything, and she hates just about all staff of anything medical. Not something I wish to force upon them!) than most Alzheimer's anything can handle. 
You talk of me "lecturing" you when only my last sentence in my original comment was regarding you and your situation, yet you spent an entire paragraph trying to make me sympathetic towards you then spent another comment criticizing how I approached your bad attitude towards something that could very well be exactly what you're looking for.  Bless you.  Hope you find what you're looking for.
Even though your grandmother has LBD, I'm pretty sure as a caregiver you could attend any of the alzheimers caregiver support group meetings. I think that might be your best bet for networking and figuring out what resources and activities are available in your part of town.
> My understanding of hospice was that it was like the icu but for terminal people they can't really help.

That's palliative care you're thinking of.
Yeah, I suppose dementia is dementia in terms of emotional impact on the caretakers. 
