If he can afford this, amazing. The options I had before my father passed were insane. Nothing was covered by insurance because he wasn't yet on Hospice (even when he was the nurse only came once a day), without Hospice nursing care at home was somewhere in the ballpark of $45-60 an hour. An. Hour. It was never an option for us. Even for an afternoon for me to have a break. I just couldn't afford it even with his retirement and SS. Larger cities probably have more options but this is what I was left with. Dementia can progress quickly, if he can afford at home nursing he could probably afford the top tier memory care facility where he could have neurological therapies, activities, friends, and even a pet at some places. And then you have the peace of mind that your loved one is safe and cared for. Be proactive. We didn't catch my dad's early warning signs in time. He also was diagnosed with lung cancer this year. I moved home Jan 18 of this year, he passed on Christmas Eve. Ask lots of questions, talk with residents and families of memory care facilities. The sooner he can be settled in a place and getting daily interaction and care the better. AND, if you haven't, ask him questions about his life. Record it if you can. Cherish it. Sorry to be morbid and depressing but we always think we have more time which is a false sense of security. 
Yes, but it is expensive. And a caregiver, not a nurse. A nurse is over-qualified and would be too expensive (they cost $45-60.hr and generally don't want to housework and food prep for your loved one). A good caregiver is all that is necessary usually. I have hired them in shifts of 8-12 hours 24/7_ they cook, clean an do errands for my parents. They should know how to and be ready to assist with all ADLs. Make sure any caregiver is ready to meet your loved one's needs in the department of showering, toileting etc. If someone doesn't feel comfortable with this stuff, they are not a qualified caregiver. Get ready to pay a lot, though if you are lucky, your loved one has longterm care insurance hat may cover this. I pay $16-20/hr and that is considered generally pretty decent pay for that type of work in the city I live in. I have found my own caregivers by going through care.com and Craigslist. This cuts the cost of using an agency by a decent amount. However, be sure to do your own criminal background check. Do not be shy about telling any individual you hire that you will be running a full criminal background check. If you get a bad feeling off someone, don't hire them. If you suspect something bad, don't keep using them. Do use a nanny-cam. Make part of the hiring criteria be that the person drives and owns a reliable car (unless you are on a major line of public transportation as in a big city). Be NICE to your caregivers_ they are your loved one's life line! Make them feel like valued employees and that will carry over in their loyalty to you and your loved one (I gave all the women who take care of my parents Christmas bonuses this year of $150). Hide financial documents and such so that caregivers don't have a chance to get into your loved one's financial stuff.  
I think that if it is appropriate given your father's needs, it is probably better. But it may not be appropriate. As a possible downside, a live-in nurse isn't the same as having someone 24/7. They need to sleep, what if your father wanders at night? What if the nurse gets sick or have a family emergency? Is there a backup plan, or could you manage for a couple days in a pinch?  

With my parent, we had in-home nursing up to about 10 hours/day to cook and clean, keep them comfortable and safe. As the disease progressed, we added more and more hours/day. Eventually, they started to wander at night and we realized that we would need to have someone awake and watchful for 24 hours/day. At that point, we realized a nursing home would be better. 
Most caregiving agencies do not want their employees administering medicine for liability reasons.  So, if your Dad is unable to manage his own meds, you'll need an LPN or RN coming in to do it which will be $$$. 
Most caregivers will administer meds IME, even from agencies. I have had better luck hiring caregivers on my own though. They have all been great and administer meds daily and sit with my mom to make sure she takes them. However, we don't require things like insulin injections, so I imagine those would require a nurse.
Maybe it's geographical differences.  Not a single caregiving agency I interviewed in my Mom's area would administer any meds.  All she had were pills to take, no injections.  We were told that a nurse must do that task.  At three times a day x 7 days a week x their higher hourly rate, that was the "straw" that caused us to admit my Mom into a facility instead of keeping her at home.  
It probably is geographic. Like I said, I have also used mostly non-agency caregivers as well because they are more flexible and cost less. If they weren't able to pass meds, it would be a big problem for us too! 
