Try googling your local Alzheimer's Association, call them and see what resources they have to offer you. I'm wondering if adult daycare might be a good thing for your grandfather to keep him occupied and from wandering. If he lives alone, wandering at night will become a problem. You'll either need a live-in helper at some point or for him to live with family or in a facility. Also, get a medical alert bracelet for him that has his ID and family contact information.
Unfortunately, Medicare will not cover any costs for caregivers or daycare. It will only cover in-home care if a nurse is required (for other medical conditions). 
Also, Medicare will cover some assisted-living facilities if your grandfather doesn't have any money (though not usually good ones). A support group for adult children of dementia patients will have a lot of good information about resources and facilities. If he does have retirement funds, I recommend consulting an Elder Care Attorney to plan for future care. The costs can be astronomical. There are tax laws and Medicare rules to take into consideration if a family member is paid for caregiving. 
We're going through this with my grandmother. My family is selling our house and moving in with her. I'm a stay at home dad/student and used to taking care of two children under the age of three, so why not add another person? I'm very fortunate we're able to be in this position and help her out.

She's 83, pulmonary fibrosis and osteoporosis with multiple compression fractures along her spine. My goals are to wake her up with the kids, help her use the restroom/change her and make sure she gets a balanced diet. It won't be easy, but I know she would do this me without a second thought.
I'm sorry you are going through this, it's not easy process. 

I view you as having two options ultimately. 

One. Someone has him move in with them or they move in with him. (Sometimes the latter is easier for readjusting) 

Is he a veteran? Sometimes they will pay for a person caregiver for a specific amount of hours a week. If he is definitely look into that. 

I know that it's not easy. Most day programs will not accept Medicare but depending how finances are you might be able to afford one. Some are cheaper than others, doesn't always mean they are worse. 



Two. Move him into a secured environment. 

This one will take time and research. Because he is a wander risk he will need to be in a locked environment. I'm not sure how your area is for that but one thing I would look into if you find one is to look at their state survey information. Even if it doesn't seem like a great place, if you make your presence known and communicate any concerns that would come up, they will pay attention. 

Like many have said to contact your local alzheimer's association. They can give you great resources and support. 
Also, there are home security options you can control from a smart phone that will in essence prevent him from unlocking the door. They also have life alert type pendants too. The one I am thinking of is Iris and is sold at Lowes and is only $9.99 but needs an internet connection. 
Medical alert bracelet? - I referred his son to the local Alzheimer's website and phone number thanks! We were also told about something Called angel sense, have you heard of it? 
Wow. That is very sweet. I know some people who could careless about their elderly parents and it makes absolutely no sense to me. I wish you all the luck and strength. 
A bracelet he can wear at all times with his name and an alert that he is memory impaired and a number where family can be contacted at. Have not heard of angel sense, no.
Also, check with local Police Dept - some have awareness programs or try to keep track (I've seen this on a Florida Police dept website https://www.jupiter.fl.us/1224/Special-Needs-Registry).  I can see where this could help but it isn't showing up where I live so I will have to try to get something going with my local PD.
