The time line here is a little unclear, but is sounds like five years of minor indications of trouble and then a rapid decline in a week?  I'm glad you got her checked for the UTI, has there been a sleep study?  Missing sleep makes dementia much worse.  Has the hospital checked for a stroke?

I'm not doubting the EOD diagnosis, but Alzheimers doesn't progress noticeably in a week.  Sleep disturbance or something like  a UTI will put an Alzeheimer's patient into a far worse condition that quickly, however.
I'm sorry that your mom has EOD. My mom was diagnosed with EOD early last year and I'm in a similar situation trying to help my dad figure out how to manage it. The only advice I can give is to make sure that you take time to take care of yourself, too. It's a lot of work and it's not fun, and I wish I had more recommendations/advice for you. Good luck and know that there is a community of people who support you, whether on this subreddit or your church from what it sounds like.
A friend of my wife's is a shrink, and she came to me a few years ago, worried that my wife had early-onset Alzheimers. At first, I did everything I could to deny it. It looked like depression to me. Perhaps PTSD from her previous abusive marriage. She certainly had lots of anxiety.

But then it became clear to me that her anxiety really stemmed from not being able to cope with many things in daily life, and unable to express that anxiety to me in any meaningful way. Upon reflection, there were many warning signs years and years before I originally estimated that her tribulations began.

I hate taking her to the doctor or any other appointments because it's so stressful for her, but of course I do, because it's necessary.

As the primary caregiver to my wife, I know the weight of responsibility. I don't expect her kids to do anything to help, although the occasional times they come by to visit, they are welcome and my wife enjoys the time they spend with her. Because I'm a step-dad, they basically won't give me the time of day, but I set that aside because the joy their visits give their mom.

If I could rearrange the universe, I'd imagine the kids coming by from time to time to show her they love her. I'd imagine they would do little things to lighten my load; say, taking her out for a coffee every week or two. Helping with the beaurocratic health-related bullshit I have to go through.

You're very lucky to have a church group willing and able to support you and your dad. Count your blessings.

Not to sound harsh, but from my point of view, your dad is the primary caregiver. It's his load to bear. Your job is to love your mom, and to be as supportive as you can to your dad. Your mom needs to know and to feel they you love her. Your dad needs to know he's not alone.
Hey OP, just a shot in the dark but my MIL had something similar happen although she doesn't have  dementia. She gets like that when she gets am infection.  She was diagnosed with MRSA, had some pneumonia,  spot on the lung.  Not to mention some liver damage from drinking.  We were told that's how she will be from now on whenever she gets infections.  They actually diagnosed her with dementia,  we had to convince them otherwise. 
I know this is late to this post, but I thought I'd offer my insight. My grandfather suffered a stroke roughly a week after being diagnosed with early onset Alzheimer's. I was 17 years old and we were walking back to the car after eating lunch, my grandmother was inside paying. I will never forget every detail of that day from when we walked out of the restaurant. Anyway, after the stroke, he declined pretty rapidly, eventually passing. During his last months, I basically stayed with him and my grandmother in the hospital since at that time my mom was working two jobs. I slept there nearly every night, woke up, went to school, came back, helped my grandma cope basically. It's taxing to say the least. 

He would ask to eat after just eating his meal not ten minutes ago. He would think my grandma was his nurse. He would think I was a random kid. He would know me but not her, my mom when she visited but not me, my grandma and no one else. It was hard explaining things. It was hard seeing him that way. I pretty much coped with it by helping my grandma and by constantly reminding myself that he was still my same grandfather and that he needed me and needed my grandmother more than we needed him to just remember us. I also started walking outside every day. I reached out to friends (you have a fiance for support (congrats on the engagement btw!)), I tried some new things. I just started living a little more on the weekends when my mom and I switched places. 

Be there for your dad as much as possible. Make sure he knows you support him through everything. Keep that patience you have with your mom. I wish you and your family nothing but the best. 

And in all of this, don't forget yourself. 
Thank you.
Hi thanks for the reply. A sleep study has been done and there's no sleep apnea. My mom has always been a light sleeper. Her GP has set an appointment for next week to get her checked for a stroke. Also she has an appointment with a neurologist next week. 

The rapid change tells me that this episode is more than just an acceleration of her dementia, so does her GP which is why he's ordered these follow up apts.


Thanks for that!
