I am my grandmothers caretaker, she has been living with vascular dementia for the past 5 years.


Disclaimer: I have no medical training other than the basics given to me by her doctors, this is just personal experience.

First thing: Be certain to have her taking her medication. Previous to my grandma living with me, she lived with my grandfather who suddenly stopped giving her medication. At that time she went from fully functional to needing constant care and supervision. 

Second thing: My grandmother is so far gone that at times she does not know her own name or her children's names.
But even so, every time my grandfather walks in the room, her face lights up and she kisses him. She asks for him repeatedly while he is gone, often with phrases like "Where's my guy? The one I came here with?" She loves him deeply still and has never forgotten his part in her life. 

Therapy and a good routine are gonna be vital, and if you combine that with meds you'll slow this demon of a disease down considerably. A positive attitude is vital. I wish you the best.
What did the Neurologist say?  What did the MRI show?  There could be many different causes for the current symptoms.  I definitely recommend getting well thru the diagnosis process before planning for any specific situation/illness.  
Hi,
I've been working with families like yours over the last 15 years as an occupational therapist and what I can tell you  is every persons trajectory is different. Once you have your wife's results back and a diagnosis, you will be able to get a better idea of possible trajectory, (as it differs for different types of dementia) but this is just a general idea- not a hard and fast rule. 
I can HIGHLY recommend Christine Bryden's book, Dancing with Dementia. It gives a wonderful perspective and great practical advice from the view point of someone who has really lived it. (She has been diagnosed for over 20 years now and is still functioning amazingly well, with lots of support from her husband.) 
I know it can be a stressful time and reading might be your top priority right now, but I've found it really helps people ad their families to understand how to live well with dementia. Best wishes. 
Not really answering the question but if she is diagnosed...Be patient with her. She will be frustrated, angry, annoyed, obtuse, sad, confused, panicked, and scared. Know that progression is different for everyone and what happens quickly for some, does not manifest for years in other. Don't automatically assume a quirk or a missed word is due to dementia but don't ignore repetition of symptoms. Most of all, find support for yourself. You will need it. These are just a few things I wish someone had told my wife when I was diagnosed in '15. Stay strong! 
My husband has Hashimoto's, had a concussion, and was diagnosed with CFS many years ago. He ate mostly a regular diet and loved his alcohol, but not an alcoholic, and his junk food and his sugar. After he went into dementia a couple of years ago and almost died, I took it all away. No junk food, no sugar, very moderate drinking. Took him to mostly Paleo. Still does organic wheat. I wish I had done this 25 years ago after his accident. But we didn't know then what we know now. He has been upgraded to cognitive impairment rather than full blown dementia, his moods are great, he is back to the wonderful man I married, humor and all, just with a poor memory. His energy levels are better, almost what you would expect for his age, (62) and they have been reducing is thyroid medicine the last couple of times we went to the doctor. 
The MRi really didn't show much no tumors nothing to be really concerned about.  The neurologist said that basically she is in early signs of dementia and we are scheduled for a full set of baseline testing but believe it or not the next opening is for the August timeframe so now we just wait tll ten or for a cancellation since we are on a waiting list 
Yes.  Neurology can take a very long time.  Not surprised at all.  A full neuro cognitive test that takes a couple hours is needed to get a current baseline.  You're in for a long process to get a definitive diagnosis without something showing on an MRI.  A Functional MRI will detect metabolism issues in the early stages.  I think you should push for that.  Again dementia can be caused be many different things.  Early dementia can be a temporary thing caused by temporary factors.  It is important to distinguish whether it is a degenerative process or something else.  Best of luck. 
Thanks for your help the 3 plus hr cognitive test is scheduled for August and hopefully we can get in sooner.  BTW my wife is a young 65.  I feel that it's going to be a very long haul for the next couple of years.  I pray that it dosen't get any worse but I'm not very hopeful.

