Really, just be glad she is still attempting to toilet and wipe herself. Buy the cheapest, generic TP in the mean time. 
Buy some Adult underwear. I had to do the same with my MIL
If she's healthy (no UTI) then see if you can identify a 'trigger' and try to distract her from that.  Maybe see if you can engage her in a game of cards or checkers or something she likes to do that would delay her bathroom visits.  I suspect distraction would be the thing.
What if there is only ever one roll available to her in the house?  Could you tell her she has to ration it for an entire day and she would understand?  Not sure where she's at mentally so if this is something she could understand maybe it would work.  Best of luck!
My wife became a disaster with toilet paper, so I banned toilet paper from her bathroom. Instead, I have infant baby-wipes, and have a bin for her to throw them in. That seems to have solved that particular issue.
Wow, that's a tough one. Is she living with you? Is there anyone around to monitor her?

Does she have a sore bladder? Has she seen a doctor? Any digestive issues? There are drugs that can soothe a sore bladder and maybe she wouldn't go so much, if that's an issue. 
I see people doing this in the nursing where my Mother stays. Strange they have the same obsession. At the nursing home they limit the amount in small rolls.
Oh I've tried that. She refuses to wear them. My Mom might not be the same as she used to be but she's still stubborn as ever! Thanks for your suggestions, I'm sure I'll try them again eventually.
Tried that Monday, she went through it even faster. In less than 8 hours actually. I know it seems silly and I could just buy more TP, but for some reason this is the one issue out of the hundreds of weird things she does that gets under my skin the most.
I think it's just in her head. Her doctors said nothing's wrong with her physically, and yeah I live with her because she can't do anything for herself.
That sucks. Maybe hide the full rolls of TP - and save all your TP inserts and wind on only a reasonable amount - and then just put those out one at a time? I wonder if there's anything you can do to distract her from this mental loop. What else does she do with her time besides go to the bathroom? 
She needs set potty times. Sounds weird but if she knows okay at 8 am it's bathroom. Then 10 or whatever it may help her have a better sense of knowing if she really needs to go or not. I know it's hard and you have to pick your battles but I would pick this one. Don't leave any toilet paper in the bathroom at all. Just buy a bunch of those five dollar packs of washcloths at Walmart and leave a few in the bathroom, though she may try to flush those which would be bad. OR make her yell for TP every time she needs it. 
