Been there, done that.  Purchase inexpensive costume rings that look similar, but are sized appropriately.  Let her do as she will.  Give the new ring as a gift if necessary.  

As this advances she will lose them or give them away, having multiple copies may help. 

Sorry for your loss.
Oh man this has been a low-level source of worry for me.

We have a daily routine of putting on her rings -- she has four of them. Each ring has a 'name' (I've mentioned these elsewhere):

• "Will you marry me" (said in a silly voice) -- Engagement Ring

• AMOR VINCIT OMNIA (what is engraved on the ring) -- Wedding Ring

• [Name of her daughter] -- christmas gift from her daughter

• "Yo" (me) -- Ring with her initials on it

Anyhow, she is either looking at them on her hand with a faraway look, or she is taking them off and putting them on different fingers. And anytime she has to do anything with her hands, she randomly takes rings off. 

I'm especially worried that she will flush our wedding ring down the toilet one day.

I'm happy to have read your post, to know that this behaviour is not unique to her.
Maybe get that one ring resized a tiny bit larger? 

I can imagine that taking it away from her for any length of time would be problematic, I'd investigate explaining the situation to a jeweler, and seeing if it can be resized ASAP, either her coming into the store, or at the very worst taking it away from her or the shortest possible time...
Does she constantly swap them or every now and then? Liquid soap works great when rings get stuck. 
Maybe give her something else to do with her hands?

My MiL sits and constantly picks at her hands, pushing her fingers up her sleeves to scratch non-existent itches. It's so bad that she's developed sores that have to have cream on them twice a day. This is, apparently, normal.

We have tried to give her something to do - knitting, sewing, drawing, colouring - but she isn't interested, won't stick at it, forgets she's got something to do. We'd thought of giving her [a cuddle muff](http://www.best-alzheimers-products.com/twiddle-muff.html) or similar, but we know she'll likely throw it away. Maybe it's something you could try.
Agree. Eventually she will lose those rings, so it may be time to replace them with costume ones. Also, if she ever goes to an adult daycare or into a home, be aware that one common behavior is "shopping"... going into someone else's room and finding whatever. It's not stealing because they have no idea what's theirs or not, but wallets (with ID, money, whatever), jewelry, hats, shoes, clothes, etc. will go missing, even if marked with the resident's name.
This. Or if it is just the stone that is expensive, have the stones replaced with fakes and get her a band that fits in inexpensive metal for the that gets stuck on her finger. 
Thank you.  That's a really good suggestion, I put it to my father.  
Thank you as well.  I guess they are the few things that she can consistently remember as being important to her.
Thanks for the reply, it means a lot.
I don't want my father to take them away, but otherwise she might get them really stuck one day.  The jeweler idea is a good one, I suggested it to my father. /u/pbostley made the suggestion of costume jewelry, which is also a really good idea.  
Thanks for the reply.
Constantly.  My father needs to remind her ever hour or so to stop changing the them around, but she doesn't understand anymore.

With the soap, yeah, that's what they've been doing.  Thanks!


I never considered subterfuge a good therapeutic strategy, but I think what you both suggest is the right approach.
