The first thing you need to do is get him a thorough check up to make sure that these symptoms aren't being caused by anything treatable.  After that, find a neurologist who specializes in dementia.  Honestly, the meds that are currently available show little efficacy in most patients, but you can try them.  A clinical trial could offer some home.  Finally, dementia patients don't know they are doing anything wrong with their outbursts and they can't learn, so scolding them is meaningless.  Even if you sit them down and they agree to everything half an hour later it will be as if the conversation never happened; to them, it didn't.  This is why so many dementia patients end up in a care facility.  Most homes are utterly unequipped to deal with them.  If possible, get him to designate a POA so you have the legal ability to make decisions for him.  Bring in a caregiver to give your grandmother/mother a break in her duties.  It is unbelievably exhausting to care for even the most compliant dementia patient.  It is, in effect, caring for a toddler with the body and legal rights of an adult.  
Disclaimer: I'm not a pro. I just have a grandma with moderate-severe stage Alzheimer's Disease and so, I'll be speaking from my experience.


First, you need a proper diagnosis. Certain types of dementias are treatable, others are not - the only way to know is to get a diagnosis, preferably by consulting several neurologists and psychiatrists. [Here's] (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1307463/pdf/westjmed00154-0073.pdf) a list of reversible and irreversible dementias. The document is a bit old, but it'll help you understand (just like it helped me) that dementia is a symptom of a disease, and you need to know what you're dealing with in the case of your dad/grandpa.


Second, form what I have seen in my grandma, your grandpa's symptoms sound quite similar to hers: [see them here](https://www.reddit.com/r/dementia/comments/5lnezv/could_my_grandma_have_alzheimers/?utm_content=title&utm_medium=user&utm_source=reddit&utm_name=frontpage) She hasn't been aggressive, though, but this could be due to her personal character. She has always been a bit stubborn, for example, and has gotten even more so in the past 2-3 years.


Usually, with Alzheimer's you can see a physical shrinkage of the patient's brain over time. I don't have my grandma's MRI scans handy, but there was clearly more water in her most recent brain scan compared to one take 2 years ago; the density of some of her brain parts has diminished too. So, archive his scans and make sure to bring them to your physician/s for progression checkup.


Keep in mind that if your grandpa has irreversible dementia he will be unlearning things day-by-day, from more complicated tasks like driving to simple ones like feeding oneself and going to the bathroom; so there will come a day when you'll need someone who will take care of him 24/7. Hence, start thinking about getting an at-home caregiver or a residential care for elderly with dementia right now. Begin to research this issue, plan your finances and start discussing this with your nan. A good, trained caregiver will be your godsend. Having her/him in your lives will ease up the psychological damage that you will go though during the last years of your loved one with dementia.


In the future, please consider lying therapeutically and abstain from fixing your grandpa's storyline. I know it hurts you to hear him say something about having recently seen or spoken to a deceased relative, but he doesn't remember any of it, so reminding him of a death of a loved one will make him upset all over again. Whenever my grandma talks about wanting to see her dad who died in the 1950s, we just straight up lie to her that he is on a vacation and will be back in a few weeks. Same goes for telling him about his diagnosis, but this is my personal view. 


I don't know which state/country you live in but reach out to your local Dementia organization. They can provide you with lots of very useful advice and support and remind you that you are not alone. 


If I can be of any additional support, please pm me. Good luck to you and I hope your grandpa's condition is reversible. 


Edit: Apologies for the typos. I'm writing this on my phone.
You need a good doctor and a good lawyer. Take him to the doctor. Explain what's happening and that you or your father need to be present for appointments to discuss issues and meds. Secondly, your father needs to apply for legal conservator of his money, or POA, or guardianship. OR he needs to be placed in a memory care facility because legitimately elderly people cannot care for other elderly people. Especially if he is already hitting his wife. There are several meds that help lessen symptoms such as anger and aggression. They do not help the disease itself but they will mitigate symptoms so that you all don't want to kill each other. Have his license taken away. Driving is not advisable. You can easily change this to just a govt issued ID. If he cannot be trusted to stay at home or to be civil around his wife you may need to consider having someone move in to help care for them. Or like I said, a memory care facility. Neither are cheap. In the states memory care places range from $4,000-$6,000 and up per MONTH. This entire thing is scary and horribly stressful but it needs to be done, the sooner the better. By the time I made it home to help my dad he was hiding knives under his bed and living on hostess snack cakes and not paying the mortgage. It was bad. 
It's hard to develop a plan without access to his physicians and medical records - doesn't the spouse have access or any authority?  To more practical things: I would "break" the car (take out fuses?) or "lose" the keys so he can't drive - it would be horrible if he harmed someone. Limit the amount of cash and try to make sure he doesn't carry checks (my dad would just sign a blank check and hand it to the cashier at stores for them to fill out...).  Make photocopies of identification he carries in his wallet because that will probably get lost.
Hi Lordica,

He's been having checks including MRI's over the last month in relation to his past TIA's and they've been testing his memory at the same time.

He's mostly all there just he gets very forgetful, frustrated and he's very very stubborn just like both of us, he genuinely doesn't think anything is wrong and as such it's hard.

He still lives at his own home with his wife, they go shopping (to a degree), they take care of themselves (to a degree).

They both have their own problems my Granddad is actually the listed carer for my Grandmother because she lacks a lot of physical capabilities due to weak muscles, arthritis, bad hips/knees... (even though she's had operations/replacements) and he is able to help her with all of that. He certainly does take on the role of having to take care of her, a lot more than most couples.

We've tried to encourage her to age concern "events?" but she just like him is very stubborn and she feels that it's for really old people and doesn't want to "be one of them" but we're all confident that she'd enjoy it and it would do her good, part of the reason we want her to go is so he can have a break... but saying that she also cares for him by getting him to eat, reminding him of everything, in her case she is all there mentally but not there physically, where as for him it's the opposite way round.

If we said to him that we're going to take him to the hospital or have a discussion with him over it he would get frustrated, angry and upset; let alone mention power of attorney. We feel that he's right on the edge between being able to remember and not being able to remember going to see someone about POA.

Hopefully that all makes sense.
Hi,

That's part of the problem, he's very private, stubborn and the sort who would stay in denial for a long time, he would also get angry, frustrated and upset if we spoke to him about it and wouldn't let any of us come to the doctors with him so we can't ask the important questions; let alone get anything done. He's all there mentally, it's just his memory that's the problem.

My granddads children (even my father) are all hesitant to step in and sit him down and talk about it partly I assume because they don't want him to actually have dementia (don't we all want that?) and because of how he will react to it. I've been trying to push my father at least to step in or at least speak to the other siblings to try and get them all to agree on something. It's not really for me or my mother for example to step in as we can't do much being non-immediate family.

As far as our medical knowledge goes (we have a very healthy amount between us) it certainly looks like vascular dementia, he's had 3-4 MRI scans over the last 3-4 years and they haven't said anything yet, I fully expect the results of his most recent set of tests to come back saying that he definitely has dementia and I can see something happening on the medical side. He's always drunk a fair amount of alcohol, probably a little too much on a regular basis throughout the years but not to an alcoholic degree, he still has a few beers here and there but only really 1 or 2 on a night to the pub for example because he just can't handle his beer anymore.

You mention the unable to recognize people in photos, my Granddad is terrible for this. He struggles sometimes to even realize that some pictures are his wife (granted she does look a bit different) but he very rarely manages to recognize any of his children in any pictures unless the picture is within the last 15 years.

My granddad also mentions that he "saw this lovely [insert dog breed] down the town a few days ago", it's the same story every time, likewise he keeps telling us about all of his mischievous doings back when he was a young man. When 10 years ago none of these would ever be mentioned.

We've been getting photos out a lot whenever they come round, likewise we have made them photo calendars, buy them some old school music just to try and help with his memory.

In the UK, the doctors can just bring up their notes on the computer and the MRI scans will be available for any doctor that sees him to see.

We haven't noticed him unlearning things so to speak, just confusion with anything technical (I can understand that) and forgetting to do things. 

I spoke with my mother today and an agreement she has with my Nan is after her other knee is replaced (later this month) she is willing to go to a few age concern meetings/events (for tea and biscuits) to see how it is there but part of the agreement is that she'll only go if my mum goes along with her for a few sessions because she's obviously and understandably anxious about it.

Ahh, we already lie and abstain to help with his stories, we know he's confused and forgets and there's no point getting in an argument with him over something silly, we just as bad as it sounds, nod and smile. The only reason my Dad mentioned to him about he thinks something is going on (memory/brain wise) is because my Granddad started the conversation and it was the first and more than likely only good opportunity to speak to him about it, in private, without his wife (she'd chip in with comments which wouldn't help)

Your advice, story and help is much appreciated. No need to apologise for typos :)
Edit: Apologies for the typos. I'm writing this on my phone.
Hi,

I should have mentioned, we are in the UK and healthcare is free and universal so the doctor side of things isn't really an issue especially with our local doctors who are fantastic.

He would understand what is happening, but he would be in denial, he would get frustrated, angry and upset and just wouldn't come with us to the doctors (let alone to see someone about POA)

He's still mostly all there, he's made it very clear before even when he was much younger that if he needed to go into a home/care facility that he would kill himself as he doesn't want to be a burden nor does he want to be unable to do things for himself. We have noticed that recently he has been letting people help more with things which isn't like him, almost like he's starting to realise he can't do everything anymore.

In regards to the physical violence, he has stopped and hasn't hit her in 6~ months and that is after we spoke to his wife about how she needs to stop winding him up, going on at him about forgetting things. She's the sort of lady who would frustrate even the most sane so I can kind of understand my Granddad but we are all well aware and in agreement that he can't hit, we've told her if he does it again to tell us and we'll have to sit down with him and talk about it with him present as it's unacceptable and will NOT be tolerated.

Do you know of any legal means for us to either put a tracker on his car or on his keys (I would put one on his phone but he uses old school phones) just so we know where he is for his safety and our peace of mind. His driving is still very very good, I can't really falter him in terms of his driving.

We check up on them regularly between the sons and daughters and we also make sure they get out and about, be it food shopping, clothes shopping, random trips to the town for coffee or even take them to the cinema, theatre... etc so we know roughly what they're like, except for the financial side of things he refuses to talk about money and keeps everything private when it comes to money; it's a very British thing to do unfortunately.
Hi, sorry for a rather later reply, but here we go:


From what you have written, I am getting an impression that your grandpa's progression into the disorder/disease according to [this](https://www.dementiacarecentral.com/aboutdementia/facts/stages/) outline is either in stage 3 or 4. The outline is a bit general and may not fit every person's symptoms but its translation was given to us by my grandma's physician.


Have a look at https://www.dementiauk.org/ for support. I don't know where exactly you are in the UK, but here in Aberdeen we have http://www.alzscot.org/ chapter and although I'm not originally from the UK and my grandma isn't being treated in Scotland, I have been visiting them for some moral support since last year and they have been extremely helpful. So have a look online for a local chapter and do give them a call even if you don't have anything to say and just need a bit of encouragement that you are doing all that you can. Also, I don't know if the NHS covers elderly care but maybe it would be worth calling the NHS and asking them about palliative care for elderly with dementia? I'm sure there must be some sort of help out there.


Yes, get your Nan on board as soon as she feels better. If possible, have your grandpa's GP or physician talk about his diagnosis to her, so she fully understands the severity of the situation. Then, inform the rest of the family and start working on a plan for your grandpa. The sooner you agree on one and get everything ready, the less anxiety you will feel and the more opportunity you will have to spend quality time with your grandpa before his condition gets really bad. 


I can understand your father and his, to some extend, unwillingness to accept his father's (possible) diagnosis and move on with it. My dad has been struggling too. His mom (my grandma) has been a strong and independent woman all his life and brought up 7 kids all on her own, gave them very good education and took care of their kids when they couldn't. To see her now struggling with tying her laces and making tea is heartbreaking. So my mom and I have become my dad's counsellors and we try to support him when he feels sad and upset. If your dad has been showing signs of sadness and anxiety because of his dad's health problems, and he isn't willing to share them with you, then maybe it'd be worth to talk to him about seeing a counsellor?


Hope it works out for you!
The only gps trackers I know of require a monthly service fee. But if he has a newer vehicle services like onstar can be helpful. Google for a while and see what you can come up with. I would work on the money thing if you can. Just to be sure he isn't giving it away or whatever. My dad was very very easily upset about his money, of which I had total control of for the last year of his life. Most of the time I could redirect him but we did have some major fights about it. At the end of the day it's all being done with the persons best interest in mind. A lot of people will hide symptoms. They won't ask for help out of pride. And the will forget they even need help if they do realize it. Patience is key. And persistence. Be observant and note any changes in behavior etc. 
Hi, Thank you for your reply, very very late from me.

I had a look at that website and we believe he's actually stage 4, but not too far away from being stage 5. Over the last few months it's been getting quite noticeable.

So, he had to go back in to the hospital to get the results for his scans and the way we decided to deal with it was instead of any of his children or his wife go with him one of the grandsons went in with him as he tends to be more accepting around us we think it's because he doesn't feel as embarrassed which I can certainly understand but none of us judge him or anything we're all very understanding people.

They confirmed to him that he has dementia-alzheimers and vascular dementia as we expected and he took it surprisingly well, he didn't get upset or anything but the hospital were amazing and made it sound not as bad as it sounds. The hospital gave us some telephone numbers and we were asked to organise a meeting with a lady from age concern / dementia uk.

The lady went to my Granddad's place a few days ago and they (Granddad, Nan, their daughter in law and the Age Concern/Dementia UK lady) discussed a bunch of things, she suggested a series of things that should be done such as a joint power of attorney, getting attendance allowance for my Mum & Dad as they go down a lot and help them with all sorts of things from decorating, cleaning, sorting their tablets, taking them to the hospital/doctors... etc). Again he surprised us and was all okay with it. We think it's because it's confirmed now so he can't be in denial anymore because you would understandable deny it, I certainly would!

We're going to organise another meeting with the lady again but this time without my Granddad being there because there were a lot of things that weren't brought up that are a concern including things like in the last two weeks he's only showed twice and if this was brought up in front of him he would definitely get angry.

My Nan, unfortunately is rather useless she is the sort of person who won't step up to the plate and take control. He's always been the one in control of things. She's also really not good with knowing details because she nags at him and she also is very sneaky and uses his obvious forgetfulness to get things that she wants even though she doesn't need it. I'll can't think of an example right now but everyone notices it.

The family have already spoken without Nan & Granddad being around about it as we were all confident that is what was wrong and had been trying our best with no experience with it before. We've already for the last year or so been spending more time with them because we all had thoughts that it might be dementia creeping in and in hindsight we now notice even more occasions were we're thinking "oh maybe that was dementia starting...". Today for example my Nan & Granddad, Uncle & Aunt, Mum & Dad are all going out for a meal and to the theater for a show :)

As for my Dad, he hasn't shown any signs of sadness or anxiety. We'd notice it if he was because it's normally very easy to spot. We're just getting on with it, kind of shrugging it off and keep everything normal but now trying to put things in place now that we have a diagnosis.

**Sorry for such a huge reply again but thank you for being a wonderful help, we really appreciate it.**
Hi,

I posted a lot of stuff over at https://www.reddit.com/r/dementia/comments/5rto1f/looking_for_advice_on_my_granddads_ever_worsening/desjtge/ about the results of them actually diagnosing him and the dementia uk / age concern lady advised a series of things like power of attorney, letting us know about all of his bills and everything so it can be sorted and managed.

After the lady had left he actually drove my Mum back to her home and after dropping my mum off he was supposed to be going back home straight away however an hour and a half later we got a call from our Nan asking if he had left because he wasn't home yet. We explained that he had already left and we told her we would drop in to the pub to see if he was in there and drop into the supermarket to see if he was there but just as we were going to leave the house to check the phone went off and it was him. He had just got home after 1 hour 40 mins when the car trip home is about 8-10 mins. He said that he had gone and done the lottery and looked at some football results. Which as far as we are aware would only take 20 mins max, there's still 1 hour 10 mins of unaccountable time. We have no idea where he went.


:)
