Speaking as a nonprofessional, I don't think there's anything that's "normal" for dementia patients, since the disease affects everyone differently. There are some common behaviors, though, and reliving the past — sometimes only briefly — is one of them.

It's best to go along with it, since this will avoid frustration and agitation. Alzheimer's caregivers call this telling "fiblets," a compassionate kind of white lie. If he asks where his parents are, you can say something vague like, "Oh, they went out for a while..." and shift the subject with something like, "...and we'll be going out, too, for a nice walk this afternoon. Isn't it a beautiful day?"

I found that once I was able to join my husband in his world, things went very smoothly, even happily. It took a little practice, but it seemed to make him feel a lot less lonely in his world. I also got to know him as a "new" person, and my new husband and I enjoyed many goofy times together. 
Yes, this is common. I am not a physician nor work in the medical field, so I speak from personal experiences with Alzheimer's. Every person is different of course & I found that my reaction would differ depending on the day and the lucidity of the person. Sometimes I'd just say "oh they went to the market, thanks for visiting with me today. Would you like to hear about what I've been up to?" So you acknowledge what they say/see/feel and move on to something else. Sometimes when it was clear they were upset & realizing they had "lost time" it was like they we're looking for the truth. So I'd say, "oh I'm so sorry, they passed away. I'm so sorry for your loss. Would you like to have some tea with me, and talk?" Usually by the time we'd get settled at the table, the moment had passed and we would talk about happy things they were familiar with. I'm on mobile and can talk with you & help you try to cope if you like when I get to a computer later today. 
Not sure if it's normal but in my situation I now react in a way to distract or divert to another subject.  It's difficult, especially when a parent does not recognize you, yet is asking for your younger self. Any attempt to explain that you are their child and they are confused will not help them. At first my reactions were not great. They made my parents feels like something was wrong, something was missing. The better reaction is, as others have mention, go with it and then change the subject. Usually changing the subject is as easy as asking a question about a hobby of theirs. 
Working as a nurse aide for over a year, a lot of the residents with Alzheimer's revert back to childhood. One woman in particular always thinks she's in her hometown that she hasn't lived in since childhood, calls for her mother and father, etc. With dementia patients it is usually best to agree/play along. It isn't as hard on them than if you are constantly correcting them. 
My wife is not yet in the late stages, but almost every time I server her dinner at home, she'll ask where the servings are for the children, who haven't lived at home for quite some time.

I don't know if the commonality between your story and mine are that kids or parents represent some sort of "muscle memory" of how life used to be (or should be in their minds).

I usually just say that they aren't here right now, and quietly change the subject. So far it hasn't turned out to be a big deal, although I have to say it was quite jarring to me personally the first few times it happened.
Don't know, but my grandfather for to a point where all he talked about was the street he used to live ( when he was 10) and the middle school he went.
Chiming in as another non-medical-professional who sees this behavior in my FIL. In fact, we sometimes refer to the disease as some sort of cruel time travel, where this 20-something (or 30-something or 50-something, depending on when) man ended up in an 87 year old body. We do the white lies as well:  no need to make him deal with the death of most everyone he knows over and over. If he asks why his mom hasn't come to see him, our most common answer is that she's getting older and doesn't get around too much any more, but she said she'll call later. 
Somehow the childhood memories linger longest and eventually become the real world, even though it might be a slight distortion of what actually happened at the time.

We are having this now - with the rote-repeated tales changing ever so slightly each time they're re-told and merging with one another. Places visited for holidays as a child are becoming places she lived, people's names are being linked with the wrong story, younger siblings are being dropped from the re-telling as their names and faces are forgotten.

We just listen and smile, because this storytelling or fantasy living is at least pleasant - it isn't either shouting or complaining. If questions about people are difficult to answer we say something positive even though it may not be true, and do it again and again, because the short term memory doesn't hold these answers.

If she gets agitated or repeats something about imagined slights we try to change the subject and talk about something nice or something fun that she might remember, to distract her. Doesn't often work these days.
I think it is. I was reading about strategies for families who have a loved one with alzheimers and they start to lose their more recent memories first, and their memories from their childhood last. So in the later stages they'll think they're a child, won't recognize themselves in the mirror, might think their children are their parents, etc. 
> and my new husband and I enjoyed many goofy times together

I love this phrase. My wife and I enjoy goofy times together now too. 

Very well said. That we can find silly times despite (or because of) her predicament makes it endurable.
