


Apolgies for the wall of text! 

Hello and hugs -  None of this is easy, but you aren't alone.  We had the same issue with my father, except he thought that my husband had stolen his car and that's why he no longer had one.  Went over to his house only to find the police there and he was making a report, etc.  :(  (Can no longer bring my husband over.)  God, I could go on forever but I won't.  Let's just say I feel your pain.

My father is an alcoholic and was hospitalized in order to dry him out - doctor's orders.  Was in the hospital for a week but has no memory of being there. I shop for him and whenever I'd bring groceries and there was no alcohol, he would throw a fit.  I'd try and explain that it was the doctor who had ordered it, and he'd yell and tell me I was lying or stop talking to me entirely and go sit on the front porch.  What seemed to end up working is having the paperwork that the doctor had left regarding my father's diagnosis of alcoholism, etc.  I just leave it out on the kitchen table and he can read it at his leisure.  Maybe you have some sort of written order or perhaps the doctor could provide one so that you can place the blame elsewhere?  Sometimes distracting and deflecting just doesn't work.  Another method my  cousin uses with her parents who both have dementia is telling them that Adult Services will come out and either arrest her or take them away if she allows them to continue to drive.  It's amazing how they can certainly seem to retain things that piss them off!  (Excuse the language, but I'm just coming from the heart.)  

I am lucky enough that I have two brothers nearby that help with my father's care, so whoever he has chosen as the "evil child" that particular day, week, or month, sort of eases out of the care for a bit until my dad finds another victim.  Sometimes you just need a break, and don't feel badly about it when you do.  He's in a safe enviroment - nothing's going to happen.  At some poinit his focus will change and he'll get fixated on something else.  My dad still tells me that he's going to buy a car.  Instead of getting into it with him, I'll ask him what kind of car he might be interested in, etc.  That seems to diffuse things.  At times, it seems as if he picks whatever subjects he knows that I'm sensitive to just to see if he can get a rise out of me.  The more I don't react, the sooner he gets off the subject.  Also, I'd mention to your dad's doctor about the anger.  Many times it's the anxiety that causes the outbursts and an anti-anxiety Rx may help.  Made a difference for my dad, anyway.   I hope perhaps something here was useful.  I'm so sorry you're going through this - totally sucks and I get it.  Hang in there and do contact his doc - I think that's where I'd start.  Hugs!
I cannot offer any advice from direct experience as my loved one is only in the very early stages of dementia. However, have just found this sub and have decided I am going to try to participate when possible because I can see this could be a powerful support place. 

Its my hope that others on this sub try to offer help in their responses as well.

Its not much, but check this link out as a starting place...

http://m.alz.org/aggression.asp
.
As a CNA for dementia residents only, one thing that I've learned in my time as a caregiver is that you have to become a master of deception, reflection, and redirecting. It is not our residents job to live in reality, to live in our world, the disease has taken that ability away from them. It is our job to live in their world. In most cases, being honest with someone who has dementia almost never has any benefit. Don't tell your father that he is no longer able to drive, instead, tell him that his car is being worked on in a workshop. Tell him that as a favor to him, you took it in for a routine oil change and while they were looking at the car, they found a few parts in the engine that needed replacing and offered to do it for a generously discounted price. And as an early birthday present to him, you are covering the small cost of the repairs and will bring the car to him when it is done. Remind him that the repairs will take at least two days. From the information provided, it sounds like his dementia is progressed far enough for him to forget things on a daily basis. If this continues to be a behavior, always resolve to the given answer or something similar or something that he will find more believable. If he refuses to believe the given answer, tell him that you have to take care of something urgent, (small task, nothing too hard for him to grasp)and that you will call him back within the next hour. If he calls you back before then, and asks about the car, tell him a reversal of the original answer. Tell him that YOUR car is in the shop and that you borrowed his until yours is fixed. Don't directly tell him that he himself gave you permission, but that your mother did. 

  These are just examples and you can alter them or use something that you find more effective whenever you want. But this type of reply can help minimize anxiety from your father because they are believable situations. 
  The key is to make it seem like that you are trying to help him or acted quickly out of a desperate situation. It can likely even make him feel better. 

  And always remember, when speaking to him, don't use phrases like "don't you remember?", and so on. It can cause the situation to escalate because he simply may or will not remember because of his disease. Always try to involve him in your reply as little as you can as this can cause reactions where he gets upset because he will say that he didn't give you permission, etc. I think I got my point across. 

  I hope this technique helps you and your father. I know it's hard to deal with a loved one with dementia, I see it every day and the majority of people can't fully comprehend the situation or obtain the amount of patience they need to cope with it. But like I said, it's our job to live in their world, not the other way around. 
Ha! I can relate with the 'evil child' thing. I think at this point, me and my brother have both been 'written out of the will' about ten times each for various reasons. 

Yeah, I think the 'doctor says you cant drive' thing just winds him up. I had to reschedule a neuro appointment because we tried that and then he refused to go. 
Thank you, this is really helpful. It still feels so weird to deceive him, but yeah, being direct about the disease with him has done nothing but get negative results. 

And that's all that being direct will do. At some point you learn that it's not really deceiving him. If you have to tell him something alternative to get him to do what he needs to do, it's for his best interest. You have his best interest at heart. Most people do, but they don't understand how to go about getting the right results without doing the wrong thing. It's not easy and it takes some time to learn but I know you'll get there. 
