This is typical dementia behavior, but it is not indicative of LBD.  For example, my grandfather's hands shake violently, though he does not have Parkinson's and (after extensive testing and misinformation being thrown around) does not have LBD.  

Something I've noticed with my grandfather is that he only lies to prevent people from knowing how confused he is/was.  These little lies help him save face in his mind, which helps him.  Maybe this is something your husband has started doing as well.  Not saying he is, but I'm noting it as a possibility.

His misunderstanding of computers and this particular scammer could simply be ignorance on his part or part of his dementia skewing his understanding of things he once knew to be fact.  That would be a definite sign of cognitive decline.

A large part of dementia is the inability to learn and sometimes even understand.  His not recognizing danger is normal with people who suffer from dementia.  This comes from both physical danger and otherwise.

All in all, I'm just trying to say that I'm not a doctor, but this seems like normal dementia stuff to me.  No clear symptoms of LBD other than Parkinson's diagnosis.  Keep in mind, **no one here can diagnose your husband.  Discuss these things with your doctor and you'll be much better off.**
Sounds more like cognitive issues, very common with parkinsons.

I had my Neuropsychological assessment last year. It did a great job of showing where I do have issues (converstations/memory details), and oddly enough where I am still quite high functioning (visual puzzles).

Is he being seen by a Movement Disorder Specialist? (Neurologist who specializes in Parkinsons, MS, ALS, etc).

The VA's [Thinking and Memory Problems with Parkinson Disease](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Usy2LmTok3Y)  is very close to my journey.  Might sound familiar, most frustrating for my wife is she will say something and I just don't process it occurred nor do I have a clue what she she said.  

When we are at the store, if I go to get a few things in my mind I am repeating "Yogurt" and "apples". I am so focused on trying to remember those two items I'll walk right past a neighbor saying Hi (Service Dog does tell me if someone called my name).

For those with, and family and friends, do stop in at /r/parkinsons


My wife is also displaying similar behaviour. She has a rare terminal disease that heavily impacts her mobility as well as causing early onset dementia. So she tends to spend her days watching old shows like the original Twilight Zone and surfing the net.

She has had a habit of filling out online surveys for the past couple of years, but I didn't realise until recently how big a problem this is. She has been entering our personal contact details on these surveys, and now we have been getting inundated with scam phone calls and phishing emails.

The problem is she often doesn't seem able to discern they are scammers, and I've often caught her giving out even more of our personnel information. I realised that we were getting close to having our identity stolen and decided I had to act.

I have made her change her mobile number, her email and our home phone number this week. I am also trying to make her do daily research into online scamming, but don't think this is going to achieve much due to the fact the issue is dementia and not her knowledge of these things. But I have to do something.

The next obvious step for me will be to restrict her access to phone, email and internet, but I am so reluctant to do this as it will take away the things that help her while away her days with a bit less boredom. 

If anyone else is experiencing this kind of stuff with their loved one I would love to hear how you are dealing with it.
It may be Lewy Body. Judgement impairment of that type is very common. My husband got scammed by a street hustler for a hundred bucks before we knew what was wrong with him. When he came home and told me he was ashamed that he allowed it to happen. 
It's kind of a chicken-and-egg situation. Sometimes the difference in the diagnosis  between Parkinson's dementia and LBD is whether Parkinson's motor symptoms present first and or cognitive issues present first. 

I agree with some of the other comments on here. It really is hard to pin. One of the biggest early signs of dementia is the inability to remember new information. But as another person said, this could be a cognitive decline due to the Parkinsons disease. There are cases where it actually makes the brain develop dementia. I'm a CNA for dementia residents only and I had a resident who had major frontal lobe damage due to a work related accident. He developed Parkinsons which in return developed dementia as well. Sounds like it could be both or it could just be a cognitive decline because of the Parkinsons. Regardless, I would talk to his doctor and if similar things occur, have some tests run. 

  As for Lewey Body Dementia, I'm no doctor, but I've worked with enough people with that specific type to know the symptoms. I personally would say no. Lewey Body is a bit different than normal dementia because of the symptoms. If I recall correctly, mostly if not all of the residents I've had with this type experienced very vivid and lucid hallucinations. Most were visual but some were auditory and even sense (like smell and taste) related. I know that Parkinsons related dementia and Lewey Body are similar and sometimes display similar symptoms, but definitely don't rule this out until the necessary tests are performed. In my experience, it has always required a proper diagnosis so don't assume too much until the tests are done. 

  I hope this can help you and your husband and just remember that no matter what you have to stay patient.   
I do plan on discussing with his doctor.  I was so upset yesterday I needed to vent and ask and figured this was a good place.

I was thinking the same thing about the lie.  It's the first time he'd done that in our 30 years of marriage.  I think it's more something to do with his reasoning ability since we've talked about it more than once.

Thanks for your response.
Thank you for your response.  

Yes, he's seeing a Movement Disorder Specialist.  

I'll bring it up at his next appointment.  I appreciate the link, the videos were helpful.  I did some research last night, apparently Parkinson's patients often have the type of cognitive issues you describe.


Oh, right.  I knew that.  I guess in my head there isn't much difference in LBD and PDD, they end up the same.  Thanks for sharing!
He does seem to be having auditory hallucinations as well.
He's had dreams he was acting out and restless legs.

I'm being patient. Thank you for commenting.
Your welcome.    

Neuropsychological assessment was required by my MDS before I had Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) Surgery. It was interesting, but I didn't know the name of a Pelican. You look at a picture, and I could not recall Pelican. I knew what is was, but not its name.   Ditto for Governor of Texas (guy in a wheel chair, knew who he was, but couldn't recall his name) and VP at the time (Biden).  Both came to me later in the day (i.e. not Dementia, but cognitive issues).

Yeah it could be 100 different things. Get the tests done then go from there. Better to know what it is than second guessing. I've met too many family members of residents who did that until it was too late. 
Oh, that's interesting!  He mentioned to me the other day that he was having trouble remembering a word and I chalked it up to normal senior memory issues.  

He's had delirium a couple of times after surgery and it was so scary to me that I've tried not to leap to conclusions when something seems off about his actions.
I have "auditory hallucinations" They are every day things like a door bell, phone ringing, my name being spoken.  You learn to "ignore" such stimuli.  Hence a Service Dog is great help in situations when I am out and about.  

In my workshop I have seen a 4' tall rabbit run across the shop, and disappear through a 1" crack. Dog didn't do a thing (so I know it wasn't real). Also I wasn't sleeping at all for a few months.  Three to Five hours is my usual sleep, with less than three hours sleep a night I have issues.

Funny thing was one night I heard someone pounding on the door at 3AM.  Service Dog (who alerts me) didn't alert. She was awake, but other dog barked at the noise. Checked the house, checked out side, nothing. Came back to bed and heard "thump, thump, thump" it was the Service Dogs tail wagging (signal for everything is OK). Hmmph.  

Surgery -- IV sedation only. Nothing via breathing tube.  Friends with Parkinson's have had post op issues. Rule of thumb is one month per one hour being under.  Lung Surgery was five hours, and it took me about six months for the "fog" to lift.  Brain Surgery as six hours, but for DBS I was awake for everything but last 30 minutes (running cables) and clear the next day.  




Wow!  Was it hard to get used to the hallucinations?

He's mentioned in the past that he hears different songs all the time and he mentioned it to the doctor, who didn't indicate she thought it was an auditory hallucination.

He sleeps way more than most people.  He will sleep from 10pm to 6am or later and then he sleeps from 2 or 3 til 7 when I wake him for dinner.  Sometimes, like last night, he tells me he wants to sleep through dinner.  He usually wakes up during those nights and he might get a snack.  His CPAP machine is pretty old and he's expecting a new one soon.  (It's already been ordered.)
With audio hallucinations, it is like random events. I just ignore them, but no idea if real or my mind.  The Rabbet, and bats, seem to correlate to lack of sleep (less than three hours).  

I keep a log, then write a brief summery of meds, whats happened, what changes we have notice.  

I "hear" songs, but that is more like just random memories.  We could all use a little more Grateful Dead.

When driving, I keep a scan out for emergency vehicles.

Driving is pretty much short distances these days. No night driving, zero alcohol if I am going to be driving.

I wish I could sleep.  So that's good.  CPAP - need to remember to order a new mask and headband (when old/loose my wife hears the hiss hiss hiss sound).  My best record 4 minutes, 2 seconds between breaths.  Border Collie jumped on my chest! Nothing like doggy CPR!


Holy cow!  Four minutes?!  What a good doggy!!
