Does she already take any medicines?  It may be possible to talk to her current doctor about getting her some anti-anxiety meds.  It's difficult when dealing with early stage dementia because they still have the right to direct their medical care but not the ability.  
Also Belgian here and I work in a WZC (Old folks home). If she doesn't want to go to a hospital talk to her current doctor. I don't think I'm wrong to assume she will trust him? He can do a few test (MMSE and Katz-schaal maybe) to determine if she has a form of dementia (not necessarily which one). He can also prescribe medication if needed). It might be a good idea to accompany her during the visit. 

If you can get here tested on the Katz-schaal you should know enough to get her into a WZC if deemed necessary. It's used to score how good or bad someone might be physically and mentally.  O- profile being like you or me and then A to C (C being the worst) and finally D, dementia. 

If you have any more questions then feel free to PM me. 
.
In my dementia support group I've learned about therapeutic lying. Between there and reading posts here I've seen people say, to tell her you are going to lunch or to tea. Don't use the word doctor. Or say the doctor appointment is for YOU and you want her to come. Worth a try. 
My mother takes no medication and absolutely refuses to see a doctor of any kind. I have not done this yet but it has been suggested to me that we try to get a doctor to come visit her at home.
Thanks for your reply!
At the moment she is on a few meds and has been for a few years. Good advice, I will see what's possible with her doctor although I'm afraid it will be like you said, that they can't just give her meds because she didn't ask for them herself...

Hey thanks!
It's nice to hear from a fellow Belgian, kind of helps to know how it all works in my own country!
Thank you for the advice I will definitely try to get her to see her doctor. Although she has visited him before and refused to do further testing with a specialist...

Anyway getting her tested on the Katz-scale definitely will help so thanks for your advise!
Didn't think about this yet!
Very solid advise thank you!
Good advise, although I'm worried she will throw a fit when we eventually ask her to perform in some tests, any advise on how to handle that?
Thanks for your opinion!
Unfortunately this won't work as we have to visit the hospital for the test... They have a separate testing space there, just to test for alzheimer's and that's the one they need to have her do...

Thanks though, your advise might be helpful in the future!
If she throws a fit-- The doctor will then see it and it will help with the diagnosis. You can also talk to the doctor I had of time and tell them what to expect, and see if they have any advice on what to do if she throws a fit.
Oh, I forgot to say I'm in the United States, in Florida where there is quite a higher percentage of older people. Please forgive me, I'm going on ideas from the United States, and I don't know how they would apply but I'm hoping something works.

And your English is fantastic! I teach and and I edit so I am extra qualified to make that determination. :) (My father was from Vlissingen, in the Netherlands, and I've been there many times and to Belgium too, so "hello."--I just realized I don't know where you are, but hello anyway. :) )

I'm sorry for your dilemma. My mom has dementia and I'm caring for her, and I'm the only one. I dread the days she needs an official diagnosis for me to get help.

My boyfriend's been the only one helping me through this and unfortunately he's 900 miles away and I haven't been able to see him in a year. The other suggestions he gave to me include: just take myself and walk in to the doctors' office where she has gone in the past and just stay there and tell them what's going on and see if they can have somebody like an organization, a government office, etc., help me. 

Additionally, there's a website called AgingCare.com where you can write in your question, but I don't know if they're just answers applicable to the US.

Next thing I'd suggest is if her doctor talked to her or has seen her before and given her any kind of verbal test, can they offer her medication based on that, before she has a test at the hospital? Or could she have a home visit from the doctor to determine that she could use some anti-anxiety medication that does not require a positive test result? If you got lucky enough for that, maybe she'll agree to go to the doctor if she were calmer. I don't imagine my mother would, so I'm not assuming but I'm wishing you the best.

Something else I thought of is that the one thing that has always scared my mother the most is getting Alzheimer's. Even if I talk to a doctor, if they're ever stupid enough to tell her she has it, I would never forgive them. I would just want to be able to caution them to see if maybe they not say it to her but somehow give medication and other help anyway. Maybe they could notate it in her chart, and/or write prescriptions or whatever else you may need without saying the words to her directly.

I'm rambling, but I'm just hoping that some idea helps you. I am of the firm belief that this world is not ready to handle this problem that we are already knee-deep into, and I know that people have been destroyed emotionally, physically and financially just trying to help their own family members and it needs to be handled better. I'm sorry about venting, but it's so easy for everybody to say to do this and do that with her doctor and diagnosis and I know that is not possible for us and it's upsetting. I definitely understand that because I feel like all we are doing is walking in circles.

If I think of something that is helpful, I'll try to get back to you. My heart goes out to you, I understand.
One little thing I already do to avoid the "situations" in the grocery store is that I now just do most of the shopping without her. However, my mom is at the point now where she doesn't remember a lot of things so is different from your grandmother, so maybe that's of no help.
