Yeah, one of the first noticeable things to go in my wife's case was the ability to write her own name. She was quite alarmed when she noticed it, and spent several fraught days trying to spell her name.

Perhaps it's only anecdotal on my part, but she always got thrown writing the part of her name that had too many vertical strokes. "E T H E" -- The  **T** or **H** always messed her up. Her behavioural therapist at one point had her do exercises of writing out the letters of the alphabet until it became too much a source of frustration.

We right now have problems going to the bank to take money out of her account because she no longer can scribble out her signature correctly. Thank god they allow her to give her thumb-print instead.

In terms of reading exercises, I actually have no good idea if it's her vision or her comprehension that's at fault. The last time we tried, we watched together "The Little Prince" movie, and afterwards tried to read the book together, and she really couldn't do it. It seemed that either her eyesight or her concentration skipped a measure or two, and she'd jump from a word on the left margin to a word a line or two down on the right side of the margin, for instance.
I really wouldn't focus on this. Either they can or can't write as the disease progresses. Somewhere along the line all alz suffers will completely lose their ability to write no matter what. Focusing on it and doing exercises and such will probably just make the sufferer feel worse. For my mother we focus on what she cans still do and enjoys. 
My dad can't even write his name. 
My MiL finds it really hard to write her name in greeting cards and it's almost impossible for her to write an address on an envelope, but I'm not entirely sure if this is related to her Alzheimer's or her age, because she is now older than my father was when he died and in the last years of life *his* writing became very poor and he became quite frustrated that he could no longer write his previously beautiful script.

I think the fine control needed to write neatly, and for the letters to 'flow', is quite difficult for elderly people, including those with no loss of mental capacity.
Hey, thanks for sharing your story. I appreciate it. You've given me some stuff to think about!
Thanks for sharing. I think you're probably right about not dwelling on it. I wish you the best of luck with your situation.
I'm really sorry to hear that. I don't want to hit you with a meaningless platitude, but: stay strong.
