I would have let him have it unless there was a reason not to. Since he'd likely already sipped, he'd already been exposed to whatever germs were on the bottle. My rule of thumb is "no harm, no foul." Pick your battles.
Does he enjoy another type of beverage? If so then go up to him and say "Oh I got you this coke, let me trade you".  As in not offer another drink just do it. 

I've had to once before give someone a snack that they needed both hands and told me here let me hold that (up in the hallway) but then was upset with me because I had it so I accidentally split some then they wanted a new bottle. 

The hardest part is getting it out of their hands, once you do that then it's normally easier. 
It's so patient dependant. If it's not going to actively harm them at that moment, I wouldn't try to take it. It might be germy, but the fight isn't worth it. Distraction is generally the way to go, offer them another drink, or something to swap, or an activity with a "pop your drink down there and come help me with this". 
Thank you all so much for the answers! I definitely agree with the "pick you battles" mentality. In the end, he was fine today, so no harm, no foul.
Maybe telling him it is not his and you'll get him something else?
Swapping it works best - I use the 'Oh, you  don't want that - here, I'll give you this cold - or hot  - drink, it's better' routine.  It tells him that he can have something better instead and usually works.
I've had success with just swapping, the moment I mention this one is better my residents refuse to take it. One of my residents said "well good you can keep it then ". 
My approach appeals to my dad who must always have the 'best'... but it's situational, it won't always work. For other things I generally have to wait until he's asleep to swap.
Yes everything always is. I've also noticed it can vary person to person or setting. 
One of my residents hates taking out her dentures. When she was at home her daughter would tell her "well if you don't take them out the doctor will need to see you " and she would do it. We tried same approach and she said "No they are fine honey. I don't have a doctor and you can't make me go". 
