You could try a couple of tactics- the one you suggested, saying he is on a business trip or at the store might also work.  Is she retaining any new information?
Don't resort to telling her that her husband is dead. She won't remember for that long of a time and every time you have to tell her again, she re-lives  that pain. Same thing goes for her deceased sister. Don't make it so that she has to absorb all this new information. One of key factors of dementia is losing the ability to grasp new information. You'll have to come up with a lot of trial and error ways of redirecting her attention. Whenever she's in doubt, you reassure her. If she asks about the husband, he's at the store buying groceries so he can cook dinner for everyone, it'll be a while before he gets back. If it's the sister, she would never steal money from your auntie, maybe let's check your purse, or you'll ask her about it when you see her.
Maybe just "he still loves you, he's just busy right now", or something along those lines.

I'd avoid telling her that he's died. She likely won't remember and it'll cause her a lot of distress. 
Kind of. But she tend to combine several events into one and make it fit into a complicated plot against her. Right now she seems to trust me, which makes it far easier to guide her to good choices. 

I feel like reminding her that my uncle died will either bring her peace, or could completely go the other way - and suddenly I'm a part of the plot against her. 

If she doesn't believe me, should I then offer proof? Would this be like brand new news to her and begin the grieving process all over again? Before this last fall it was like she was finally taking baby steps toward acceptance. I just don't want to make it worse. 

He was retired Army, so one of her friends told her he was on some top secret mission. This didn't seem to bring her peace though, and I hate lying to her, especially when she interacts with so many people I don't know. I feel like it leads to more confusion because different people might tell her different things. 
That's a hard call.  What's better, death or betrayal?  God, but I hate this disease. 
