She probably has less than two weeks. When my dad stopped food it was less than a week. Tell her the truth! Yes, you are dying. So and so is waiting for you. We are all here to love and support you. You are not alone. Give her familiar smells and sounds. Hand holding, stroke her face and head. Be present. Dying is a lot of work. In my dad's case one of his last lucid moments was to apologize for how he treated us and to ask my mom how long it would take for him to die. If there's anyone she loves deeply but hasn't seen in a while try to make that happen. It's very helpful for them. My dad was able to hear me via FaceTime for the last couple days he was alive. His oldest son was across the country but called and spoke to him over the phone (even though dad couldn't talk or open his eyes at this point) he died 20 minutes after that phone call. I'm sorry you're going through this. Being present is most important. 
Be honest with her. She can tell she is dying and is asking to be sure. She might have dementia but she can tell something is happening to her. I've had residents who couldn't form a complete sentence tell me "Just let me go" when they were dying. 

Also let her know it's okay that she's dying and that it's okay to go when ever she is ready, sometimes people need to hear that is is okay to die. 

It doesn't have to be a sad time,  celebrate the life she had and the woman she was instead of focusing on what is happening right now. 


I agree with the other people who've said to be honest with her. I think it's best she knows, because she will have lucid moments, and at those times she needs to understand and prepare as best she can in her head. 

I sat with my grandmother when she died at almost 106 years old. I stroked her hair, and talked softly to her for the last half hour of her life. She was at peace when she died, surrounded by her family. She knew what was happening, and knew she would soon be in heaven with her God. That gave her a lot of comfort in her last 48 hours. If your nan is religious, she might take comfort knowing that God is waiting to welcome her. 

I should add I am not a believer, but my gran and my parents are. I was pleased for her that she believed she was going to heaven, and who knows, maybe she did? :) 

I hope you are able to spend lots of quality time with her, and find strength in your family and loved ones. Godspeed to her. 

Internet love to you and your family 
Phew, this is a difficult one and I truly think it depends on the person you're talking to and how they feel about death and dying. Some people are scared, don't want to accept it will ever happen to them even they do know that everybody will, one day, die because that's what people do.

I think you truly have to behave in a way that matches the person, even if it means hiding the truth from them. Some untruths are good ones.

One relative was in a hospice for the last few weeks of her life yet wouldn't accept she was dying and was scared of dying. It would have been more upsetting for her to have known 'how long' than to be in ignorance, to have pain medication and to slip away in her sleep. 

Another relative was fiercely determined not to die, ever, even though he had terminal liver cancer and made no arrangements or told anybody his wishes. He was at home until very few hours before he left us, it was as if going into hospital gave him permission to go. The same, sort of, happened with another relative whose family let her know she 'could go' whenever she wanted, and that's just what she did.

My MiL, who has Alzheimer's, is fairly convinced she is going to live for ever and didn't even want to make a will or organise power of attorney in case it meant she would 'die tomorrow'. My father was the same - no will, as if he thought it meant he would die soon after making one.

*edit: I do have a large extended family.*
I've been holding her hand a lot and kissing her cheek. Oddly enough, she actually apologised to my mother for "teasing her" (she scratches her and throws things, sometimes) yesterday which she's never done before, so she's having real moments of clarity.

I really appreciate your honesty and I'm sorry for your loss. 
Thank you so much. She does know a lot despite her memory being shot and we need to give her credit for that and, as you said, be honest. I really appreciate your words. 
Thank you for the love and the story of your grandmother. What an incredible life she must have led over those 106 years. 

I'm not a believer myself, my mother is on the border but my nan is and we have pictures of Jesus, etc., around and a Bible and all of that. I think that will bring her a lot of comfort in her final hours and I'm so glad she has that. I still have chills from thinking about how she said she could hear God. I hope she's right and both our grandmothers are in a better place. 
My gran told me she'd been visited by a man she didn't recognise the day before she died. He'd told her she needed to go on a trip with him, but she wasn't sure where. She believed it was jesus coming to take her home to heaven. As she was losing conciousness the next day, and as she was dying, she was saying "where's he..., where's he..." but not finishing the word. We thought it was my mum she was asking for (Helen) but she'd shake her head. I think she was wanting to get to heaven and was asking the way. I too hope that is where she is. I miss her. Give your nan a big hug from me in Australia and ask her to say hi to gran? Actually, maybe not. That'd just confuse her. But give her a hug from me anyway please? I'd give anything to hug my beautiful gran again. 
I'm actually in Australia. It's such a small world on here. Thank you for sharing your story with me, again, it's... actually a huge relief and I promise I'll give her the biggest hug when I see her tomorrow. 
Wanted to let you know I saw her today. She's gotten much, much worse but I was able to hug her on both of our behalf. Thank you again so much for your encouragement. 
