She would require memory care at this point. 

Medications can be hugely helpful for aggression! A geriatric psychiatrist (or a neurologist specializing in dementia, but  we had more luck with the psych) is who'd you'd want to see, they're really in tune with these behaviors and how to regulate them. 

Is your grandmother doing everything she can to keep the situation calm? Until mess are sorted out, look up how to cope with dementia delusions 
I am so sorry.  I asked at one point how intake works when they are too dangerous and delusional to live at home, and emergency room social workers can help the family make it happen. 


She does her best to stay calm and recuse herself when needed, but it's not always easy. 
Sometimes certain medications can help, but finding the right one can be hard.  A psych is definitely appropriate and a memory unit would be best as dealing with side effects can be really hard. 
Usually playing along with the delusions is helpful. Correcting them usually makes them more upset!
As in a forced trip to the ER as a Segway into memory care?
Yes. If the person is in danger.  

The tricky part is that the way extended care works in the US is that you have to pretty much be prepared the burn through the person's assets, unless they're fairly  affluent or have uncommonly good insurance or perhaps veterans benefits. Many families choose to wait as long as possible, hoping to inherit a little something rather than have their parents' life's savings go toward long term care. We had to deal with that with my grandmother. It caused a break in the family, because some of her kids wanted to inherit and give the best home care they knew how, and some wanted her to have professional care in a safe place. 

Personally I'm conflicted. Prolonging the life of someone with advanced dementia through high-quality professional care in an institutional setting isn't necessarily better than living with the outcomes of the best care you can provide at home while allowing  some freedom and normalcy.


Here's the problem with her staying at home (in my view and my family's view) is that she is killing my grandmother. I understand that my grandmother is an adult, she only retired last year at age 72, and is capable of making her own decisions but I feel the need to intervene. It's so hard to stand idly by. 
Maybe try reporting the situation to the local social services agency that deals with family services. This will force them to open a case and will evaluate what's going on and make recommendations based on what would be best for the impaired person - if the caretaker cannot provide a level of care acceptable by state standards, other options will be put forth. 
