My wife, who also has early-onset expressed pretty much the same thing. She spent her whole life building a career, and finally when she was in spitting distance of a happy retirement, had this horrible thing happen to her.

It's sad to hear from you about your dad's bad luck, but I agree with /u/dmagee33 that there surely have been happy memories as well. The shock of learning of a diagnosis is initially devastating. I lived through that myself. But please hang on, and allow time for the shock to pass.

It's not fair. It's not. I spent months wondering what the hell I was going to do. Then, it turned out that what I was going to do was to love my wife and to look forward to those times that she laughed with me and gave me a smile. She's still there.

So is your dad.
I commiserate. My mother had lifetime of physical and emotional difficulties, then a brain tumor and then early onset dementia. I sometimes can't believe that it seems like lightning keeps striking not once, not twice but just repeatedly. It's like, will the bad luck ever run out?! All I can say is what the others have said: there still will be good days, live day by day and appreciate those good moments.  Hugs to you. 
My mom had/has a decent life, except my brother died unexpectedly 12 years ago. I always wonder if that emotional trauma played a part in the disease. She is an identical twin who does not have it. 

My mom suspects that the general anesthesia that she had for her hip replacement surgery played a part. She suffered delusions while in the hospital and very dramatic short term memory loss that lasted a few months afterward. She was never quite the same, but wasn't diagnosed for 6 years. There are theories that support that, but no evidence.
Thanks everyone for your nice words. It made me feel much better and I'm working on making as many memories with my Dad as I can. 
I too have been up close and personal with this disease. My mother had the accelerated variety but her two sisters did not. Mom cared for the middle sister until she had to be put in lock up Alzheimer unit(still there, 15 years). After being so involved with what is apparently the family disease Mom accepted it when it was her turn, and I think that helped Enormously.  You didn't ask but this is what I learned: Stress speeds it up.
Never Ever ask if they remember something, it makes them sad. Going for drives is calming. Read up on Sundowners, it can be pretty shocking. Showers are scary, stay in the bathroom and don't let strangers attempt to bathe him. I told Mom funny stories. Stories about her, us, history in general...everything had a happy ending. There is no shame, it's just the disease. She lasted 4 years. She made it easy to parent a parent. Good luck, be nice to yourself, it's important
I believe that emotional trauma has been linked to Alz, definitely worth a google as there are a lot of articles out there on it.  In my case, I think my mom had a whole life of it, from childhood abuse through third husband suffering multiple strokes.
