My father-in-law doesn't have significant health concerns, although we found that he gets forgetful sometimes but we thought it is natural. This is aging, we told ourselves. In order to strengthen the security of the home, we have installed a free security camera app called Alfred on old phones. I tape one phone on the front door glass. The rear camera watches over our front porch and the front camera watches the hallway. The camera keeps a video journal of when the mailman came and when my father-in-law left home for a walk.
That day, I left home to pick up my kids from school. The ride was only 10 minutes. When we arrived home, we smelt something unpleasant and disturbing.
I didn't see anything suspicious, so I opened the app and checked motion detection videos. I saw my father-in-law in the hallway, dropped his pants, and literally squatted down, and defecated and urinated right on the floor. Then he grabbed feces into his hands and threw away into the trash can. After doing it, he simply walked away as nothing happened. He didn’t tell anything about it to me as well.
I was flooded with too many emotions: disgust, I have to admit, as well as frustration and curiosity. Is this the first time? Who even knows?
I told my husband about this that evening. He thought his dad was probably incontinent, like the scene where Julianne Moore's character couldn't find the washroom and peed on herself in the movie "Still Alice". Reluctantly (because I know how devastating it can be for him), I showed him the recording. I could see that he was trying to hold his tears when he said "Sorry, you weren't exaggerating. We'll take him to dementia assessment."
I think observation and early identification is really important. Hope my story helps.
Here is the link from the alzheimer's association. It's a great resource and there is local classes that you can take for free to understand it better. 
  

I'm not sure if it will paste correctly as I've never linked anything on here before. It will send you to the mobile page of 10 warning signs. 

  
http://m.alz.org/10-warning-signs.asp



  edit: to answer about behavioral changes, I've never seen just behavioral changes being a sign of dementia. I've always seen it accompanied by another sign. 
It's good, in a way, that there is a lot of awareness of Dementia awareness now, but not all old people suffer from it.

There are other things that can cause personality changes, such as pain and general 'lifestyle'. People get irritated when they realise they can't do things they used to do because it's so frustrating to 'not be as fit as you used to be'.

