My wife has early-onset Alzheimers, and I too find myself crying from time to time. Mostly when listening to music. When the music is sad, I cry. When the music is happy I cry too -- mostly from a sense of something I'm missing right now.

I also from time to time have a feeling the resembles deja-vu -- but not deja-vu. More like the life I'm living right now with my wife cannot possibly be real. It must be a bad dream that any minute now I will wake up from.

To be honest, the way I deal with it is to live by the words of Sam Vimes (from the Discworld series of books -- the author of which was Terry Pratchett, who fairly recently died of Alzheimers)

> Do the job that's in front of you.

Your job is to love your mother. My job is to love my wife. You'll do it because that's the best thing you can do. And it would be a shame if you *didn't* cry about it. This is a terrible, terrible affliction that we're dealing with. It seems equally tragic for the family members as it does for those with the disease.

Hang in there. There will be good days, and there will be bad days. I hope the good days can buoy you up.
Dear child, {hugs} to you.  I am much older and just lost my mom last year, but she had been afflicted with dementia for about 15 years too. 

It's sounds like your mom is safe and cared for in a nursing home and that is exactly what she needs and you have provided it. Good job!

 Do what would make you happy. Bring a potted plant to your mom's room? She may not realize it's there, but maybe it will brighten her day. Or it may brighten her caretakers' day...and they'll smile and think fondly of your mom and her environment as they tend to her needs. Bake some treats to take to your mom, and eat them with her...or share with some staff?

I sincerely hope you are taking care of you though.  Feel free to pm me if you need to vent or talk. 
I send you a {hug}.

I'm glad you wrote. You did not ramble, and you are not selfish. I think you're smart to reach out and write.

I don't have anything substantial, as the other comments did. I will say that I don't think you're abnormal. You've endured a tremendous amount of loss.

I would imagine your mom would want to "know" you are well. Please take care of you. 

Do you have trusted people to talk to? What about counseling? I just started again and I think it's helping. Maybe there's a group you can find out about from the home or doctor, if you feel that would help more than hurt you. 

I also think it shows tremendous kindness and strength to so lovingly care for your mother as you do. Dementia alone is a lot to handle and I'm more than twice your age. It's all so confusing to me. I likened how I feel to being in a room with no windows or doors and just bumping into walls and not knowing which way to go. 

I don't know if this could help you, and it is so cliché. A family friend told me yesterday to just take it one day at a time. Somehow I found that a bit comforting. 

I most sincerely wish you well.
My father was diagnosed with early-onset dementia when I was in high school.  I tried not to, but I always felt like it was so unfair that his disease robbed us of having a real father-son relationship.  I became so bitter towards my friends who could complain about their fathers wanting them home by a certain time, when I had to make sure I was home to help mine with dinner and help him into bed.  

While my groomsmen were hanging out and doing shots, I spent the morning of my wedding day helping my father shower, shave, and dress himself just so I could have him there to see me get married.  Eventually, he forgot who I was and became combative towards me when I would visit him in the nursing home.  He would try to hit me when I would just trying to help him eat some fruit.  

After living with him and his disease for over a decade, he passed away a year ago when he totally stopped eating and drinking.  I'm 29 now.  He never got to really meet my wife or daughter.  We are expecting another little girl in July.  I always wonder if he would be proud of the man I am today.  I don't think that emptiness of not knowing is ever going to go away.

I'm so sorry you and your mother have to go through this.  Please know that you are not alone and there are people out there that understand.  If you ever just want to vent to someone, feel free to PM me.  And always remember to take care of yourself.
When I was little, my parents were good friends with a nice couple. A Latino man who owned his own business and his wife. Very smart, very sweet, very capable people. I learned, at a later stage in my life, that the man's mother was in a specialty care facility for Alz/dementia patients and had been ever since he started college (the man was probably in his 40's when I knew him). He had to leave the state and get away from everything because the pain of going to see her was too much. He now lives thousands of miles away from her and is happier because of it. It's not that he doesn't love his mother, it's that he loves her so much that the pain is intense and unbearable. 

You're not alone in what you feel and whatever decisions you decide to make are your own. There are no right answers here, but that also means there's no wrong answers, either. 
If you can afford it, can you do talk therapy or even see a grief counselor? Because it definitely sounds like your grieving the loss of your mom and the loss of a "normal" life.  I'm going through some stuff with my personal health at the moment and just talking to someone about how I feel really helps me. Some people don't like that though. It feels good to get it out and they've given me some good coping strategies. 
