My mother was diagnosed when she was 49 and by the time she was 50 she was at a stage 4 and had to be moved into an Assisted Living Facility.

Her father got ALZ but not until he was in his 70s.  Her Mother is fine.
My great grandmother began showing symptoms early (before 70), her 2 daughters did not exhibit any symptoms whatsoever-both living long/heathy/normal lives, and my mom started mental decline became visible in her late 60's.
My brother has it- no family history at all.  My father had FTD, but he's not genetically related to my brother.  
My wife has it (probably since her late 40s). We're both now in our mid/late 50s. I depend way too much on her parents, who are both approaching their 90s and have no such symptoms, nor do any of their forebears.
Did they call that early onset? I think after 65 is considered standard Alzheimer's or dementia. 
Thank you for your response, and hope you've hung in through it all. <3
Sorry to hear it. How old is your brother and how old was he at diagnosis?
God, that's so hard. How did they diagnose her? Has a scan confirmed plaque in the brain?
He's 60 now, he was 57 at diagnosis.  I'm 55 and starting to sweat.
Yeah, she's had multiple MRIs, EEGs, EKGs, etc.

I guess it sounds hard, but to me, it just **is**. This is life, I love my wife, and life goes on. I love to hear her laugh. I love to see her eyes light up when we listen to the music she loves. She's my wife!

When we got married, and for all the years afterwards, I revelled in the fact that someone would *volunteer* to do my laundry for me. And even iron!

Now, I revel in the fact that her eyes light up when she wakes from sleep, and laughs at my stupid dad jokes.

It's great to be in love, no matter the circumstances.
I feel you. I've had fear of getting early onset my whole life! It was crippling for a while. My grandma had it and went from a brilliant psychiatrist to completely brain dead in a matter of years. I've always thought it to be the most frightening way to go. I still do. However, I was a kid so I think my perception was disproportionately skewed.  It was the first time I had ever thought about the notion of losing your mind -- through watching it in my own family member. Such a horrifying realization for the first time in your life. 

I recently did the 23andme test and found I have a (apologies if I'm messing this up) APEO4 variant, which is a variant for Alzheimer's. Not necessarily for early onset. Early onset has its own potential genetic markers, and I've really thought hard on whether I should get it done. 

However, I have been strangely soothed by seeing the APEO4 variant in my results. It has somehow served as a gentle reminder that I'm not immune to disease (any disease), but there's really not much I can do. It is literally in my DNA. Don't sweat it, and just fuckin' live it up until I can't any longer. When I think about my grandma experiencing stress pre-early onset, I think "noo!! It's so pointless... just let it go and enjoy the years while you have them." So, I'm applying that same logic with myself. 

I hope this helps you in some way. Let's live it up, my friend! ::hugs::
I just read that aloud to my partner and ended it with "holy Jesus that melts my entire being."  It really does. Nothing quite like pure love... Thank you for sharing. Made my day a little bit. 
