It's too soon. She needs help at home and depending on how far along she is you might consider daycare, exercise classes, and/or group support from other early onsetters.
Adult daycare programs and in home supportive services could be very helpful. It depends on your area. If there is a local alzheimer's association chapter, they may be able to give you some ideas about local resources that would be most appropriate for her stage. 
It is wonderful that you are thinking about all this at this stage. Having stimulating activities and socialization is crucial to maintaining her current cognitive level--and you're right, it's often too much for families and caregivers to provide these things. And this is no judgement on you, it's just too much. Your mother might be suitable for a social daycare, or if not a medical daycare. You would be surprised how young some of these clients can be. Exercise classes and other activities are also a great idea. Companion services are wonderful for folks who have no personal care needs, such as help with toileting, and some agencies can send someone who can run errands with her, take her to a movie etc. I have no idea where you live, but in the U.S., each county has some form of division on aging, through the department of health. They can be an amazing resource for you. I wish you, your mother and your family all the best. 
I see that people have recommended stuff like daycare, or having home health care.  You don't give your state or I would look it up for you, but google Area Agency on Aging or Aging and Adult Care--they provide info and referrals to all the places local to you.  
I agree with this. Someone with MCI would be out of place in assisted living. You might check with (Alzheimer's Association)[alz.org] for resources. You might also be able to find someone to do home visits. Note that I'm not really recommending typical home health care (though that could come later), but rather companionship care. (Here)[https://lifemattersusa.com/friendly-visitors/] is an example of such a service, but disclaimer - I work for them.  Feel free to PM me for more details.
