There are a million things it could be other than Alzheimer's, so I would go have her checked by a doctor. The earlier the diagnosis the better.

What made me concerned for my mom was her short term memory loss. She does not get disoriented, though that time will certainly come.
In my case (early onset) many of our family members had been seeing weird forgetful/repetitive oddities from my mom.  We didn't discuss them and all kept them to ourselves.  It took a family friend asking my father if everything was OK with her to get the ball rolling on docs, appointments, and eventually a diagnosis.

I agree with the other commenter, just asking your father "Have you noticed anything off with Mom?" might open up a very important conversation to get you all on the same page.
Not sure why your Not concerned about basic memory issues. Have you talked to Dad? What does he think? Don't grill Mom, she's probably aware that she's losing it and scared to death. 

My mom knew she had it, after caring for her afflicted 2 older sisters. She was still  demoralized, terrified, and sad. Her Dr. did not diagnose her until she was pretty far gone. She declined any meds that would prolong her decline. 

Also, could be Diabetes.

Good luck!
Thank you all so much. And I am concerned with the memory loss, don't get me wrong. I meant that the other symptoms were more worrisome as her memory has never been her strong suit. I'll ask my dad. 
[deleted]
I agree with this, I think.

Drinking that much water could mean she has kidney problems, or UTI, which can have a range of side-effects.

No harm getting things checked out, but I wonder how your Mum would really feel if you turn up and insist she goes with you to see a doctor. Best, surely, to have a chat with your Dad and see what he thinks, and also explain to your Mum why you're worried - if your Dad hasn't already said something pertinent.

Whatever you decide to do, good luck.
My whole life it has kind of been my sister and my dad versus me and my mom. They are abrasive and we are more sensitive. We have always teamed up and been incredibly close. I think going to the doctor with anyone else would be overwhelming if she's already scared. My sister told me that it could also be a precursor to a stroke. I'm going to take some time off work and try and get some answers.
Those are good reasons.
