Hello,
This is what my father has been diagnosed with. Effectively, a series of progressing small strokes has resulted in massive cognitive, memory and function loss developing slowly since 2002. 
The way it was explained to my family is that the vascular system of the brain is like a tree, with the large arteries being the trunk and the small branches being the capillaries. As the branches die, they do so  quicker and quicker, with the brain tissue between them decaying as well. This can happen quickly, but it doesn't always. 
My father displayed symptoms as early as 15 years ago, beginning with slowed speech and misplaced words. This has developed slowly into his inability to use the washroom, bathe, eat, or dress independently. He is 60. 
So, what to expect? From what I have been told, every case of vascular dementia or white matter decay is different, with some patients plateauing and some spiraling with a consistent pace over the years. I know for my dad, these past two years have seen his quickest decline. We have been told that he will soon lose the last of his ability to speak and perhaps to recognise us as his children. He is still jovial, loving and kind, with his adoration of children and books still intact (though he can no longer read or write). He is himself, just a much paler version.
If you have a moment, please Google Christopher Eccleston's interview with Teri Gross regarding his father's battle with dementia.
I'm very sorry this is happening to you. My biggest hope for you is that what we have experienced will be the exact opposite of what you go through.
Is it Binswanger's? Worst of the white matter dementias with only a 5 year prognosis. Except for your day to day hassles with this disease you'd never know you were standing on death's doorstep. You retain awareness and memory lasts longer than executive function. So few live long enough for studies to be completed and no pharmaceutical manufacturer wants to invest in a drug that the patients don't live long enough for them to turn a profit.
Thank you very much oh great one, aka Liz. Your post was very informative. I appreciate you taking the time to write to me. Mine has been going on for over ten years but past 3 years memory has gone out the window, so to speak. But %so it goes" as Kurt Vonnegut used to say. I told my doc that my memory can't get any worse and he said it could. then  I remembered a picture my brother sent once and had to agree w him. It was a pic of a woman singing in a dank dark bar and written on the pic was "apparently rock bottom does have a basement." ha. Hopefully me and your dad can stay above the basement level. I'm sorry he is having to go through this but I know your support helps and he does appreciate it. take care
Bless you both!!
