You could try calling Adult Protective Services and ask for help.  Dementia and sleeping pills aren't a good mix. 
Sleeping pills can be dangerous for elder people, especially when they are disoriented, because it makes the disorientation even worse, and can lead to them falling. You should try to convince the children of her to take her to her doctor about the meds, maybe she doesn't really need them, or maybe there are better alternatives.

If her children are not co-operative with the rest of the family, you can't do that much about it sadly. I'd ask your aunt how she feels about it - dementia patients still have their own opinion on things, and if she doesn't like how it is, you could try to point that out to her children. 
She needs daily, sustained care at home or a facility. APS isn't going to be a ton of help. She needs a guardian and conservator if her children are going to be so blasé about her safety. Any family member can file for emergency guardianship. She will be evaluated and the jury will make a ruling about her care. This is an exhausting task to care for someone this way. If she were to go into hospital for at least 72 hours her insurance (if she has insurance) should cover her transition into nursing care/home for the first 100 days if she goes straight from the hospital. Start looking into homes now, many are waitlisted. Someone in her immediate circle needs to manage her finances and care full time or place her someone where she is safe and provided for. 
That was exactly what I was thinking. 
APS might be useful if her current "caregiver" already has legal guardian status. Not providing adequate supervision to prevent wandering and providing inappropriate medications could certainly be considered elder abuse.
I agree completely. In my dad's case people selling drugs out of his home while he starved to death wasn't elder abuse (according to APS). The ONE decent social worker I was able to get in touch with assured me he's seen APS leave elderly people laying in the floor for days with a shitty diaper. Basically as he puts it there's not enough case workers and the ones there are don't really care. 
