Try to make this her final move- moving a dementia patient around disorients them.  Take pictures of her home before you pack things up and try to arrange things similarly in her new place.  Will she be moving in with someone who will be her caregiver?
Had to move my mom from the east coast to Colorado a few years back in the early stages of her Alzheimer's. It was rough, and I didn't prepare super well amid the chaos of getting her moved. In retrospect, I would:


* Talk about the move regularly. Leave post-its around if that would help. Make sure she is as prepared as possible to remember that she will be moving come the day(s) of the move. 
* Get photos up of the new place. Get it as familiar as possible. 
* Hopefully have her room be as decked out with her favorite things from her current home as possible. Having a familiar place as a cornerstone can work wonders. 
* Get her a support network going. There are tons of senior centers and awesome, accessible pre-arranged outings and whatnot where she can feel in control of her own life in a way that is safe. 
* Get her and your aunt talking regularly if they don't already. Your aunt is going to be the one needing to know all of your gma's quirks and oddities and what she'll complain about endlessly because she can't remember she just finished complaining about it. Prevention of behavior is by far the best method of avoiding stresses of being a caretaker. If you know your gma won't like a restaurant or hates a brand of milk or something, no amount of talking with her about it or trying to dissuade the complaining will be able to make her stop because of the memory loss. Just buying the specific milk or not taking her to the restaurant you love but she isn't keen on can save so much time and mental effort. 
* Practice patience. Taking care of/living with someone with memory problems is a lot like dealing with a kid at times. They aren't always capable of doing what you want or the way you want, and there is no way to communicate certain things to them anymore. Breathe deep and be prepared to make some concessions to keep your gma stable and happy. 
Try recreating her new space as much as possible like the one she is familiar with. Also trying to keep her routine the same. Keep pictures and furniture that you know bring her comfort and joy around. You can always call the Alzheimer's association helpline for more suggestions
And music that she loves. Music is truly a great help. In terms of supplements I wouldn't recommend any, but if her behavior gets too anxious or depressed talk to her doctor about something to help her, though I'd recommend as a last resort
I moved my Mom into a home close to her old house. She picked it out. She knew why she was there. After a week she called and complained that everyone else was so much OLDER than her. Was she going to be there for 20 years? I hate lying so I said "Yes, but you won't remember".

We had a good laugh. 

There is no stopping the progression, though. So, as prepared as she was, the day did come when she just didn't know why she lived there. I told her the Doctor said it was the best place for her to be. Authority always wins. 

IME, The stress of any drastic change causes drastic decline, sometimes short lived, sometimes permanent. Remain upbeat and positive. 

Check out r/Alzheimers. u/rostoffario has got this nailed.
We had to move my mother-in-law from one apartment in our fourplex to the upstairs so she'd be closer to us.  Here are several things we did to help her:

1. Put a screensaver on the PC that rotates photo's of her life and her family. This gives her some familiarity. 

2. We put her chair by a window so she can see outside and watch people go by. She loves to yell at the girl with the red car across the street as she thinks it her cousin. 

3. We started out with puzzles to occupy her time. Get the easy ones with maybe 20 pieces. This helped her feel some control and independence. 

Once the puzzles started to look abstract(she would force pieces together that didn't fit), we got her Chinese checkers. She would make different designs with the different colored marbles. She would spend hours rearranging them. Be careful though, after two years we one day caught her putting them in her yogurt. No more Chinese Checkers. 
We kept her favorite bed sheets. She's had them for years and always points them out when she walks by. "That's mine!"  "Yes, honey, this is your bedroom, see the photo's of your parents" "Ah, ok". 
 Now she has forgotten who I am. When I walk in to her area I always knock first. I introduce myself and then point to a photo of her mother. I always say something like" Oh, I remember Louise, she had beautiful flowers."  This let's her know that I'm someone that knows her family well and then she'll smile at me. 

Also, everyone should keep sentences short. Remember, she only remembers maybe the last 6 or so words you say.  This is important and can take some time getting used to. 
I hope this helps some. Good luck!

I've been reading that coconut oil as a dietary additive, while adjusting calories to compensate, can make a slight difference in cognitive ability. My mom's husband also sneaks turmeric into her food, as it too seems to cross the barrier into the brain to help with inflammatory issues. 
yes, shes going to be with my aunt. i havent seen her and cant really say how far gone she is but is there anything else like, dietary changes she could do to help out? 
Patience is key. 

My family and I go to a summer place in another country, and every night my dad would become anxious, convinced we were leaving the next day (this reversed towards the end of the trip, thinking we had instead just arrived). It's trying at times.
Thanks.   Also, next time she asks why she is in that house tell her she is on vacation for two weeks. We use that all the time with my mother-in-law. 
Good luck!
thanks ill look into that. she also just hasn't really been eating much in general, my family in colorado was going to try seeing if cannabis would help out at all. at least in getting her to eat regularly again. 
Just try to make everything as close to as she always did. Her diet should remain the same as it was before she moved. Every additional change makes this whole thing even more irritating and can make her even mkre disoriented.

I would also watch out for her emotional wellbeing. For many people with dementia, the moment they lose their home because they can't take care of themselves anymore starts a downward spiral, because they still know, or at least sense, what is happening. It can cause depression. Losing their place, their home, and their face (because of being needy) can make them a lot worse, because disconnecting further from really can be easier than dealing eith those feelings. So I would definitley watch out for signs that she has a hard time coping with this situation.
Ice cream seems to be strangely appealing to dementias patients. Soft serve is hard to choke on, and it's calorie dense. There are days that mom won't eat anything else, but she'll take a plain McDonald's vanilla shake.
Appetite tends to decrease as people age, this is pretty normal. Their taste buds also tend to skew more towards sweet and salty. Sometimes eating a small sweet food first can rev their appetite for the rest of the meal. 
thats what i was thinking, try to keep things as familiar as possible. they were thinking of getting a copy of her hometowns newspaper delivered there since she liked cutting out news articles. my only concern there is her getting used to everything from home and then realizing she wasn't in el paso, i think that would cause issues. 
