I'm going to say this is not a symptom she needs to worry about.  It would be concerning if she forgot how to write her name.  She can ask about it next time she has a dr. appointment, but there's no need to make a special appointment.

Here's a list of symptoms.  
https://www.alz.org/alzheimers_disease_10_signs_of_alzheimers.asp

Notice the table at the bottom that compares dementia and normal aging. 
(Adding on to my earlier reply)  We all lose brain cells as we get older.  Dopamine is the neurotransmitter that tells our muscles to move smoothly--that's why many elderly adults have shaky handwriting.   So it could be that she's naturally lost enough dopamine producing cells that she's starting to get the tiniest hand tremor--where she means to write rin, but her hand skips a letter.  

Here's another question to ask:  does she have problems with smell?  Does she have lots of constipation?  Those are possible signs of another illness having to do with motor control.  


I don't think it is anything for her to be worried about and, to be honest, I'd see if she could have a chat with a doctor to put her mind at rest.
Dementia is a syndrome, not a disease. A syndrome is a group of symptoms that doesn’t have a definitive diagnosis. Dementia is a group of symptoms that affects mental cognitive tasks such as memory and reasoning. Dementia is an umbrella term that Alzheimer’s disease can fall under. It can occur due to a variety of conditions, the most common of which is Alzheimer’s disease.

Dementia may affect:
> Memory
> Thinking
> Judgment
> Behavior

Although there’s no cure for Alzheimer’s. Treatment and Prevention can slow each stage of the disease. The goal of treatment is to manage mental function and behaviour and slow the symptoms down. People with Alzheimer’s and Dementia can also benefit from Care home London and other caregivers.

https://alzheimercarehomesberkshireuk.wordpress.com/2017/06/07/dementia-and-alzheimers-sign-and-symptoms/
Thanks for the info. Very helpful.
