You may not like this answer.  But realistically an 80 year old with "sporatic" dementia should not be driving.

Your grandpa has had a great full life. If he gets behind the wheel and takes away someone else's life, you will never forgive yourself.  
Others are right. No one with diagnosed dementia/Alz should be driving. 

I remember one poster here from a while back that let someone afflicted drive themselves to their favorite restaurant. The afflicted ended up sexually harassing people and nearly assaulted someone. Things can turn out much worse, but the safety of others is paramount is situations like these. 

Do not allow him to drive. They are right to take away his license. 
Once it starts, it doesn't "go away" For goodness sakes, do not give him his license back. People can die. That is why they take them.
He should see a neurologist for a more thorough diagnosis.  His license was most likely temporarily suspended pending a more thorough diagnosis. 
Your right, I don't like the answer, but I appreciate it.  You reminded me to keep my emotions in check and keep an open perspective. We need to keep safety of everyone in mind.
So three days ago you went on and on about how you don't trust doctors and had lots of reasons based on your experiences.  

Why should I trust a doctor the family had never met after a 15 minute assessment?

While I respect some of the responses I've gotten from other people, I think you're full of shit.
What it comes down to now is this: y'all know he has dementia. It never goes away and it realistically won't get better. Focus your attention on giving him the highest quality of life you can without ignoring this disease. He needs support and understanding. Try not to focus on the injustices so much and focus instead on the fact that this will help to ensure his safety and the safety of others. 
Dementia is a whole different thing. I have had two family members with dementia. No, I don't trust doctors to do any kind of reasonable care. I deal with it better than a doctor ever has. And no, nobody with dementia should not be driving. Doctors are partially responsible in my opinion for the rise in dementia with all their drugs and and the bad food advise that is out there. I will still rant about doctors, the food supply, the health problems they cause etc. My husband has dementia and I took his car away. The doctors tried to kill him, long story, but I took him off all sugar, processed food etc and his is better. But will I give him his car keys back? No. Yes, get another assessment, but I still don't trust doctors. I go by observation, research on my own and reasoning. And once dementia starts, it doesn't just go away. If you want him to not get worse, change his diet, take away the sugar, processed food etc. But only 1 in 100 people will change their diet to fix their health. My problem with doctors is their drugs etc. I will still always go for diagnosis and they are usually right about that, actually pretty good at it. It is the treatments I have a problem with. 
