Quite normal, I'm afraid.
I can only speak of my grandmother, but this was normal for her in the early stages of dementia. 

In time, as the progression of the disease evolves, he may not be able to process the questions entirely and would probably require that you simplify them, speak slower and give him time to think; though, even this this will not guarantee that he will give a reasonable answer, or will not change it later. 
If I were in your family's shoes, I would bee seeking out a second opinion. Clearly this doctor isn't familiar with dementia. You need one that is.
Try not to ask questions, tell stories instead. Use visual aids if possible, don't ask if he wants an apple or an orange, show them to him.
Thank you all for the help. 

He's supposed to see a neurologist in a couple weeks. 

The doctor that told him he could go back to work/drive was a doctor at the assisted living facility where he was getting therapy for speech/movement until he could come back home, so we are taking what he said with a grain of salt and hoping the neurologist will give more concrete info.
> The doctors said he could go back to work and even drive

In my mother's case, the doctor's said they cannot do anything to require her to hand in her driving licence. It probably differs by country.  
Now we are getting the run around it seems from every doctor in regards to getting his disability insurance. 

His work place said they'd handle it, then they said to go to the hospital, who then told us we needed to speak to the doctor from the assisted living facility who then told us that the doctor was now retired and on vacation and he probably "wouldn't" feel like doing the paperwork when he gets back...like WTF?

Then the neurologist he was supposed to see  (the hospital gave papers saying they'd call and schedule and appointment) we saw and they said they do not do that and the closest they could get him in was three months from now. 

Entire family is getting super pissed off at all of these doctors, it's like they just up and decided they didn't want to do their job or help and like it's a bother to simply do what they said they were going to in the first place...
[deleted]
Thank goodness, my mom decided pretty early in that she didn't like driving.  So, if she needed to go anywhere, she just let someone else drive.  Now she just says, "I don't drive."
