That's awful.  My own grandma I get frustrated with all the time. I just step away or pretend to be on the phone if I need a breather.

What gets me is when she asks a question, doesn't understand the answer, then asks again, and still didn't understand the answer and gets mad at me.  So then im all, let's talk about something else, and she's like "no, just tell me".  Very frustrating.

I'm trying to think of other stuff I do.  Sometimes I go to the bathroom or tidy up the kitchen or something to get myself out of the room for a bit.  You need moments for yourself.  

Could I ask how long you care for her in shifts? Is it 2, 4, 8, 12 hours? How many days in a row? Do you ever get respite?

We cared for Grandpa for 8 years without respite the first 6 years and found respite more and more necessary towards the end, as caregivers do need to make self-care a priority as well. 

You should be honest about how you are being affected. Not everyone is fully suited for elder care and some are more so than others. 
The mods can edit/delete this, but I work with a nonprofit that has a caregiver program. Our director has worked with folks like you in our area and she came up with a song that actually helps people build patience. One caregiver said it gives hope to a situation that doesn't have much hope.  It is absolutely free and is available on iOS and Android. You can read more about it at www.caregiversmatter.org. It has tips and activities too. If you try it, would love to know what you think. 
When I was caring for my mother she did this same thing.  I'd already came to peace with the fact that my mom, my REAL mom, was gone and this person was just the shell of the woman she once was.  When she'd ask about my ex-husband I'd give her a positive but limited answer.... Her:  How's Bob doing?  Me:  He's doing great.  I'd never bring up the fact we were divorced or that he's really a jerk because it's not relevant information in her world and just confused her more.

More or less, I'd just give the appropriate/expected answer.  For example: 

She'd ask me about dead relatives and I'd just say "I haven't seen them in a while."  She'd ask if they were ok and I'd say yes.

Her:  How's your mother and daddy? (lots of times she didn't recognize me).
me:  My parents are doing great.

Her:  Have you seen my mom?
me:  No I haven't seen her lately.

When she'd have lucid moments and recognize me, she'd ask where  daddy (my dad, her husband) was.  I'd always say he was at work.

When she was having a bad day she'd get mad and say, "why do you keep calling me mother?!"  I'd just smile and say, "because you remind me of her.  I had the best mom in the world."

I'd also use redirection.  I'd redirect her attention to something else to break that thought process.  She's ask me for the 100th time what she's supposed to be doing and I'd say, "Look at that cloud, looks like it might rain."  

I think the key is to join them in their world, their reality.  Trying to make them join your world confuses and upsets them.  I used to tell people it was like mental gymnastics....always jumping around and totally exhausting.  Don't try to explain things in depth to her.  Her mind can only do one thing at a time now, so keep everything simple, like you would with a toddler. It's hard, but don't sweat the small stuff.  Pick your battles wisely. Don't take her comments and questions personally. I found it easier to call her by her first name and kind of distance myself from the situation.  Don't ever feel bad about venting or ranting.  Cry when you need to.  Laugh a lot (even at inappropriate things).  This is the hardest job in the world.  Everything will be ok in the end, but getting to the end is stressful.
Hey, thanks for the reply. In answer to your questions, I care for her on a permanent basis whilst still trying to maintain independence as much as possible. She lives in her own house on my parents land (where I also live) there's no respite to speak of as I'm pretty much permanently on call and spend the majority of my time with her. There's currently no possibility of external help due to funding issues. If I'm honest with myself I know I'm not suited to the situation but there's no one else to do it. I just feel stuck in the whole situation. Sorry for ranting.
Don't apologize for ranting. It is good that you get that out. Letting it boil inside just results in resentment and burnout. I am a giant hypocrite by saying this, but please try and take care of yourself, utilize every single source possible to catch a break every now and then.
