Depression absolutely can go with dementia. My FIL spoke about suicide as well. Paranoia can go with it, too, which makes sense when you think about it... I can imagine if I had huge blanks in my memory, or if I remembered things differently, that it would totally freak me out to live in a world where nothing really makes sense and nobody seems familiar. 

As /u/reus-in-aeternum says, also have the doctor check for other issues. Even something as simple and treatable as a UTI can make the dementia symptoms much worse. Good luck!
It doesn't have to be dementia. Of course it *could* be, but if he really is good enough in hiding anything "wrong" with him that doctors can't diagnose him, I don't think it really is dementia, since that's most often the first sign - trying desperatley to hide the fact that you just don't know some things anymore and comming up with ridiculous, not believable, exuses to why this is so. 

Depression is not just a dementia-thing, it is an old-people-thing. Many get depressed at the end of their lives, if they already made their life balance and come to terms with how they think that there is nothing here for them anymore. The later stages of life are full of loss, and statistically, the biggest groups that commit suicide are teenagers and people above the age of 50. So no, depression does not have to be a symptom of dementia. 

Paranoia can be a sign of dementia, but it doesn't have to be. What you are describing sounds moe like a late manifistation of schoziphrenia than dementia, especially if the narrative of "all doctors want to kill me" is not changing. (But we have just very little info, so please have in mind that all of this are just some ideas, no 100% sure diagnosis)

Also, kidney-problems are bad. And I mean, **really bad** for a human. And they can bring all sorts of problems - such as a change in the brain. He maybe has a secondary form of dementia, meaning that failure in other organs causes dementia-like symptoms in the brain. Paranoia and depression can be part of kidney-problems, if they are bad enough. 

So, the short answer is: He could probably have dementia, or an enterily different problem, such as schizophrenia, or serious malnutrition if he doesn't eat enough, or dehydraion (which would also be very bad for the kidney). 

Where exactly do you want to help him? With the mental problems, or with eating? Please specify the questions, I'll try to help as good as I can. 
Paranoia and change in apetite can absolutely indicate dementia. Just a few things though (and remember, I'm not a doctor, just someone who lives with my grandma who has vascular dementia).

- Do you know what kind of doctor your grandpa sees? Does this person have experience with gerontology (meaning elderly issues)? My parents switched my grandparents to a gerontologist when they began developing aging issues.

- the type of paranoia

Your description of the paranoia sounds more like manic bipolar/schizophrenia than my grandma's paranoia. My grandma's paranoia tends to be an exaggeration of everyday anxieties most people brush away after a second, like fears about her house getting robbed (an extremely unlikely situation for multiple reasons, but still sort of an understandable fear). 

In contrast, your grandpa's concern about doctors are killing him sounds like the elaborate/esoteric accusation I've heard from people experiencing psychotic episodes during severe schizophrenia or manic episodes. 

The few times my grandma has accused people of plotting against her, it's sounded more like the accusation of a frustrated teenager and it never gets unweildy or detailed--"Why does my daughter go through my bills once a month? Even if I did pay a bunch of late fees before she and my son-in-law began balancing my checkbook every week, it's my business if I'm forgetting to pay bills on time. They're so nosy and need to let me run my life!" Notice that even though there's a whiff of frustration in this type of complaint, it's not really detailed or esoteric or even all that unreasonable. But again, I AM NOT A DOCTOR. 

- It gives me pause that your grandfather can fool his doctor. 

Your grandfather's ability to fool his doctor could possibly indicate that he might have better short-term memory/awareness than the average person with dementia. My grandmother's dementia is relatively mild compared to other cases, but other people immediately notice that she forgets new details extremely quickly and struggles to focus on anything for too long. Even if she wanted to fool someone, I feel like she would get distracted and forget her plan. She is aware some of her fixations (like barricading the doors at night to prevent robbers from coming in) are weird, but she goes on about other weird things to strangers that she would have kept to herself in the past.  

That said, it is totally possible that your grandfather may not be as debilitated as my grandma, or maybe his doctor is too busy to notice, or maybe his doctor is too inexperienced with dementia issues to notice. I just can't imagine my grandma having the concentration to fool anyone because she's just so debilitated by her condition. And remember, she's a *mild* case of dementia, so she's one of the more active/independent people you'll read about on this sub.

Again, I'm not a doctor. However, an experienced gerontologist might be invaluable going forward. My parents also obtained power of attorney. 
Thanks. Will do! 
Wow, this is really good for me to think about. Thanks for the reply. 

Honestly, I just wanted to make him less depressed. He's getting worse and worse and we have pretty well accepted that he probably doesn't have too long to go. But i don't want him to have to deal with the depression if I can help it. (and I don't want his wife do have to deal with it too, considering she actually *has* the early stages of dementia.) 
Glad to be of help!

What things did he enjoy in life? Even if he doesn't go out much anymore, maybe there are some things he can do to make him a bit more happy. What often really helped with my patients was bringing them their favourite meals. You would be suprised how the face of someone can light up because of food. 

Fun fact (please only do that if you really think that this could work with him), you can also help people with pissing them off. Erwin Böhm, who invented a nursing-model for people with dementia, wrote a lot about this stuff, and I really love it, because it can work. Find something that pisses people off, and use it to make them motivated. For example, if he is a football-fan and hates a specific team, talk him about how they won x, or how they are better than his favourite team. He will be angry, but it can lift the spirits of people. When I'm old, my favourite nurses will probably be the ones I can argue with, because I just love discussions. But as said, that does not work with everyone.  
Honestly, his favourite thing is arguing about stuff. It didn't occur to me to use it for good... 

Beyond that, he used to be very computer-savvy. We got him an iPad, which he fiddles with. And he has his cats, which he worships.  He has no real interest in food though, which worries me. 

Again, thanks a bunch for the replies :) 
>:)

I am happy that you are happy. Spread the happiness around.

[This doggo demands it.](http://i.imgur.com/5BU0H6t.jpg)
Well, then, if you have the patience for it, go and argue a bit, haha. 

Oh dear, technology. My great grandfather, 91 years old right now, uses his only to play sudoku with. But it's great that you grandfather plays around with his. And that he has his cats. I'm sure both things bring him joy, even if just a little bit. 

If he isn't really that interested in food, maybe placing some snacks around the house can help, so that he 1. sees food every now and then and is reminded that he needs some, and 2. can grab something when he wants to without any delay, where he could forget that he wanted to eat. Maybe place apples, other fruits, chips or chocolate etc on some tables etc. around the house and see what happens? 
My grandad usually uses his iPad to read the news. But he understands texting, so he is able to chat to friends if they're available. 

Thanks for the food suggestion too. I'll give it a shot. 

Really appreciate your replies :D
Always glad to help :) 

You can message me if that food thing doesn't work, eating is often a problem with people with dementia, so we came up with a bunch of tricks. Maybe I have something else that works better.

(And I just saw that you are active in worldbuilding. You are awesome)
