Bring up everything you mentioned here. There's A LOT that can be added in terms of medication that can really help her. But she cannot be in charge of meds, that's you or the caregiver now. Ask about something called Namzaric, it does not stop any progression of dementia but it does lessen the symptoms and give others around her relief from the behaviors that can be annoying. It's not like Ativan, she won't be a zombie from it. There are also many appetite stimulants you can try. My dad *was* a diabetic and his IDIOT doctor had him on 2,000 mg of metformin which can cause a lot of weight loss. We took him off it completely as his diabetes had resolved itself from him basically not eating when/as he should. Make sure to read side effects of meds because a lot of what elderly people take can cause lack of appetite or weight loss. 

Avoid giving her mail, talking too in depth about money, health insurance, doctors appts etc. Keep everything light, if she has a drs appt just mention it once the night before and then the morning of. Basically she needs to be responsible for almost nothing, maybe simple things like making sure to turn lights on and off. But dealing with daily life, finances, etc is too overwhelming for most dementia patients. Find actives that she enjoys, coloring, crossword puzzles, music, card games if she can remember how to play them. 

Ask about a senior center as well. Here we have something called "55 and alive" I always wanted my dad to go to but he wouldn't. They charged $10 an hour for people to come hang out like you would a kid at daycare. They had games and field trips and lunch etc. They even helped with meds. This can be a huge help for social aspects and loneliness. If you have a cat or a calm dog that can also really help. 

Lastly, make sure you take care of you. What you are about to do is one of the hardest things ever. Be patient with her and yourself. Be gentle. It's not easy, and you're amazing for taking this on. 

Also, if you don't already, get medical/guardian/conservator POA. That way when you need to do things/make changes, whatever, you can do so without talking to her about it and that will circumvent a lot of the stress she may feel. 

Good luck and blessings! 
If you believe that she has a cognitive impairment, I would strongly recommend that you make sure that she is formally diagnosed by a neurologist - not just the mini assessment they will do and the initial evaluation - , and that she receives treatment from and Neurologist and  a geriatric psychiatrist for the cognitive impairment. The type of dementia she has will dictate what the best medications, if any are available, are. there are many potential causes of cognitive impairment - it may be something like Alzheimer's or vascular dementia - or it could be something temporary, such as a problem with her medication, or a vitamin deficiency.

What you're looking for is medical and financial POA. She can only give you power of attorney if she is competent, so you may wish to do this immediately with an attorney before she is diagnosed. Conservatorship or guardianship will most likely require require a attorney and it can be costly, but it's the only way to gain decision making authority for her after she is deemed incompetent. It's much much much easier and cheaper to do it early on if you can. 

This isnt as black-and-white as it seems, we gained durable POA for my father-in-law after he was already pretty impaired but not "incompetent" (the bar is very very high for that). I would strongly suggest talking to an eldercare attorney immediately about what you can do. 
I already have a POA, signed and dated in 2014- in Florida not NC. Recently when I asked her about one (before I found the one she had prepared, but forgot) she went ballistic.
Although she is pretty impaired when it comes to making decisions, she maintains that she must be the only person in charge of her finances.
Loosing control and recognizing her own impairment are big triggers for her. A discussion can very easily lead to an eruption.
Talk to a lawyer while you're doing all this. You're busy with your daughter, you don't really have time to flail about. They can make sure that her DNR or other emergency paperwork is done, they can make sure that you have the right POas for your state. A lot of times this will be a standard package that they offer, Which makes it a little bit more cost-effective. And airtight. 

Here's what we did with our parents and it worked great. We said that we had hired an attorney to do our paperwork (maybe you can stay with the change in status and a new baby you wanted to make sure that your wills and healthcare directives and poas were done,) and since she moved states, hers needs to be done too. Actually we paid for my fathers, so we told him that the attorney offered to do his free with ours.   We just couched it is standard paperwork, and got everything done that way. It worked fantastic, and we have the peace of mind that we were legally covered and prepared for the future. a worthwhile upfront investment. 

Also having an attorney do it makes it very efficient, and honestly they're less likely to challenge an attorney when he presents it as this as standard adult paperwork stuff. Find an attorney who has worked with older people, and they can really help you out. 
