I'm helping my dad deal with this with his mother currently and I don't know what to say other than - tell them the honest truth even when they may be reluctant to accept it. Coming closer to losing a parent is going to send them for a tailspin that may put them into denial/ situational delusion.

For instance, my grandmother is only stringing a real sentence together for every 3 min. of talking and seems to be becoming a danger to herself even just when standing up due to being unbalanced/ sleepy on her feet.

Now, while her sons are aware of the severity of the situation in one sense; in another, they haven't proposed any of the logical restrictions  which we implemented for her safety as these have been primarily my suggestions and I believe this may be because of the ingrained relationship.

So, if something needs to be said or done that others might see as "submitting" to the disease or accepting further death - say it anyway because it might actually keep the sufferers safe as they become less competent. Your biggest contribution might very well be admitting new defeat at appropriate times. Don't stand around quietly if you believe that a privilege needs to be taken away from your grandparents for their safety. It's better that you bring the morale down by suggesting the taking away of medicine bottles than letting it go and finding out that one of them swallowed 30 ACE inhibitors at once.  
Any help you can offer to them even if it is not emotional support. Giving them a break from being a caregiver can allow them to work through their emotions. Can you pick up groceries for either your parents or one of your grandmothers? Stuff like that, whatever makes their lives easier. 
I even make a point to call and check on my grandmother to make sure she is safe and it gives her company for the 20 minutes we talk.
Thank you for the advice. I greatly appreciate it.
I definitely can. I live about an hour away but I feel making these trips are worth it. Thank you.
No problem. 
