Forgetfulness is a symptom of stress. For me, that meant that the stress of watching my mother pass away turned into me forgetting all sorts of little details. Even now, I have to write down almost everything (for example, 3 dinner orders when I'm at the pub with friends).

I found it created a bit of a downward spiral, where my forgetfulness would make me stress, which would make me more forgetful. Knowing that mum had early onset made it 10x worse.

It might be worth getting checked out. Or doing brain exercises. I think the important thing is you're not alone in being this age and feeling a bit off when there's dementia in the family.
What diagnosis did your mother get? dementia is such a broad spectrum of diseases. If she got Alzheimer's, which at that that age is possible, it's in a completely different category as early onset Alzheimer's which is what you are talking about. Regular Alzheimer's is not genetically linked (as far as science tells us right now) vs. early onset has a huge genetic link but that would be the case If your mom or aunt got it in their 30s.  

In regards to just regular forgetfulness... it could be a whole slew of things, lack of sleep, stress, hormone imbalance. Again, dementia is just a umbrella for difference diseases, and memory loss is just a symptom but not a diagnosis. 
So, FWIW when I was much younger I panicked about a benign cyst when a close friend of mine got cancer.  That kind of vicarious stress is normal.

Dementia is less forgetting what you said on Snapchat and more forgetting that a phone has a chat feature entirely.  Dementia is putting your wallet in the fridge our your shirt on as pants.

My suspicion is that the stress of caregiving is doing this to you.
I second this. When my husband started to decline with dementia, my own memory started failing. In the months immediately after his passing, I had some very serious lapses: I couldn't remember how to select a group of characters on my computer screen (you know, click, hold, swipe, release — I've been editing onscreen for many years). I was momentarily unsure of the street I've been living on for almost 30 years — went to key it into the Uber app and blanked out for a moment. I couldn't remember whether May had 30 or 31 days. Couldn't remember how to change the display on my cell phone from portrait to landscape.

My doctor said it was probably stress. It's been two years now; I've come to terms with my husband's death and have started to feel normal again. My mind is now as sharp as ever — better in fact than it has been in years.

Back then my doctor also suggested that I start taking astaxanthin supplements, so that may have contributed to the turnaround. But honestly, I didn't realize at the time how stressed I was. Looking back, I must have been close to a breakdown.
Forgetfulness and indecision are also symptoms of clinical depression, which is common for caregivers.  
