When my mom is in the hospital with things she isn't supposed to pull out, they put mittens on her and tape them on.
My FIL has a foley cath that he keeps pulling out. I've read about them using a "decoy catheter" if he's pulling it out because he's fidgety. The ER doc was happy to try it, but unfortunately when he got back to the home the staff there pulled it off right away (it's a memory care place... you'd think they'd understand the purpose). In any case, the decoy one is supposed to give them something to fidget with and then the real one is taped down real well so isn't as accessible. 
We had to resort to tying my Dad's hands (and one leg) away from the body, to the sides of the bed at night. That is the only thing that stops him from pulling the catheter out and falling on to the floor. This is best done with 2" wide bands made of material similar to car seat belts. It is a very sad sight but much more dignified than the consequences of him pulling the catheter out or hurting himself by falling out of bed. 
Thank you for the suggestion. Are they a specific type of mitten designed for this purpose? We're ready to try anything. 
Thanks for sharing. My father-in-law also has a Foley catheter and we just happened to read about the "decoy" catheter also. We're going to ask Dad's urologist at his next appointment. In the meantime we're thinking of trying some different one-piece clothing. I'm sorry that your FIL's staff pulled off the decoy, but I could see that happening at ours also - I get the sense they are more familiar with incontinence than with catheter management.
Just FYI, Most assisted living facility will not allow restraints. We had to hire a sitter at night to keep my FIL from pulling out oxygen.
Thanks for sharing. I'm sorry you had to resort to this. Our assisted living facility does not allow physical restraints (I believe it is state law). If Dad's behavior becomes really unmanageable, we may need to move him to a dedicated facility for more advanced dementia care or to skilled nursing, where there are physicians on staff. 
It was something that they have in hospital.  I don't really know more than that.
Thanks, restraints are not allowed at Dad's assisted living facility either (I believe it is state law). We had to hire an overnight 1:1 caregiver for a while also to prevent him from wandering out of his room, but he would get agitated and pull the catheter out anyway. *Sigh*
I had to stay w my FIL in hospital and restrain him from removing tubes, to give him a break from being restrained all the time.  It was brutal - unless I stood over him and held his hands with mine, while he struggled against me, he would pull it out.  It was what led us to put him on hospice... no one has the heart to put him through that again.
