I was surprised how much dementia is about a loss of cognition as much as "memory".   People will eat things that aren't food, become incontinent, vision changes (can't see plate, can't see toilet, shower looks like a black hole), lose language, not know how to dress themselves or really do anything.  The delusions. Hallucinations. Aggression. Inconsolable sadness. The forgetting wasn't the hardest part at all. 
Having early onset of a rare form has made me more aware of the decline. In the beginning I noticed that I wasn't following a movie or the commercials lasted so long I'd forget I had been watching anything at all. Then occasionally I'd be driving to the store or some other familiar place when I wouldn't recognize where I was. The final straw came when I kept a list one week of misspoken words, for example saying fork when I meant spoon. All the words were nouns. An uneasy feeling descended over me. This was a brain thing and I reluctantly made an appointment with a neurologist. After tests and mri's it was confirmed early onset. My kind of dementia will be spotty, I can still write on the one hand, but can no longer teach. It is relentless but it's duration will be short. For now I can see its daily erosion of my short term memory, ability to plan and initiate and its undoing of my body's integrity. This is daily life for me with dementia at 60.
Years ago I made a little [documentary](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tnwIKlgoBXU) about my mother's early onset dementia that might have a bit of further information for you.

The term dementia is a wide term that includes everything from Alzheimer's to Lewy Body, to a whole range of degenerative brain disorders that act differently. 

In my mother's case it was confusion for a couple years that made it obvious, and she was diagnosed after getting lost on a route that she took every afternoon. 

From diagnosis to forgetting my name was about 4 years. She still knew I was special to her, but not what my name was. 

Conversations only mattered in the present, there was no long or short term memory in our case. She knew she was sick for the first 3 or so years. When she would struggle with things she would apologize and say it was the sickness.
What I see is the loss of short term memory. Without short term memory things cannot transfer to long term memory.  Some memory makes the transfer, most don't. 

* I get asked the same questions over and over, sometimes within seconds of one another. 
* He never knows what the day, date, or current time. 
* He flips the channels on the television constantly. 
* He needs someone nearby all the time. 
* He can't drive a car. 
* He doesn't read the newspaper anymore.  
* He doesn't remember his children's birthdays. 
* As time passes his long term memory is fading. 
* In time he will probably forget who I am. 

These are a few specific examples, but as I see it they are all related to the loss of short term memory.

One thing I've found is that too many people (even those involved with a family member) have this idea that it's just "surface" memory loss. It's not. My mother is even like that. She bought my grandmother a "word clock" that tells you the day, the time of day (morning/afternoon/night), date, and time, with the intent that grandma would stop asking what day/date/time it was, and if she did mom would be able to just say "look at your clock". But forgetting the date/time is surface memory. So now we STILL get asked the day/date/time, because grandma doesn't even know what a clock *is*.

People also like to say that it's like a second childhood. ***LIES***. Because I know DAMN WELL that she didn't grow up spitting on the floor (never mind getting away with doing so!). It's childish behavior, but not a second childhood. Because they don't (can't) learn. With actual children, you can correct them and eventually they "get" it. Dementia/Alzheimer's patients don't ever realize there's a "it" *to* get.
With my MiL the recent memories vanished (what she did five minutes ago or what she did last week). Short term memory got difficult (repeating questions, not knowing answers). 

The years between her children being small and 'now' got very hazy with only very few tales to tell, but she could remember very clearly things from her own childhood. Sadly those childhood memories are now getting all mixed up, she can no longer remember her siblings names and sometimes it's unclear if she knows her children and their spouses names.

Short term memory can be tested - ask them to remember something they're told, say a sentence (address = 16 High Street, Anytown; the time of day, a day of the week) and then ask them to repeat it. This is what GPs do for in-house diagnosis before referral. If you try this 'testing' yourself you'll just get frustrated and upset because they can't 'perform'.

Day to day things such as, "Where did you get that glass" after they've been handed a glass of juice, with the glass coming from the cupboard whilst they were watching. They don't know they've forgotten, because they don't remember it happening. It's this confusion that can be frustrating and cause angry outbursts.

Navigating round the house, and using cupboards, can be a challenge because she doesn't really know what cupboards are for - and doesn't open the doors because she doesn't know what she'll find. A home becomes a mysterious place, but it doesn't matter too much because the chair is nice and comfy, and can be slept in.

The same questions get repeated again and again, "Did you get home early from work today?" - "No, because it's Saturday" or, "No, it's six o'clock" can do a dozen rounds until the idea of that question vanishes and a new one appears in her mind.

We're now, also, hearing many words used incorrectly which makes understanding quite a challenge. For example, the nouns for *time* are all mixed up so, "yesterday" could be an hour ago, a week or a year ago, but she knows that "yesterday" is to do with past time. For her, we now admit, that "tomorrow" is a real mystery because she has little concept of things to come although she does know some days of the week she doesn't know when they'll be happening.

In amongst all of this my MiL knows she's just fine. A careless word from a carer leads to an eruption, because she knows she can't possibly have dementia or Alzheimer's because she is coping perfectly - and I'm blamed because I'm her daughter in law, so am evil. She'll tell people that she does her own laundry, her own cooking, bathes daily, styles her own hair etc.. In reality she does none of these things and can barely make a cup of tea.
I would imagine it like the patients mind becomes Swiss cheese. Some parts just ...hollow out.  My father I. Law lost language very quickly but recognized his wife through stage five. 

The other thing is it's very difficult to predict who will have what symptoms. While the variants (vascular, Lewy body) do have specific characteristics, some people have aggression, some don't. Some will recognize certain people for a long time, some wont.  
I guess it's important to understand more about our memory to actually understand how dementia happens. If you like, read these blogs about memory, it's a good read.
https://blog.simonsays.ai/why-memory-is-still-one-of-sciences-greatest-mysteries-part-1-56ae2615c824
https://blog.simonsays.ai/how-our-emotions-affect-our-memories-permanence-part-2-7b8b9f6b5c14
Another thing also is that physical activity can decrease as well. My grandfather is 88 years old, has never had more than a cold but his dementia means that he no longer will move. He has no concept of getting up, out of bed, doing anything- even though he is 100% physically capable. It's horrible how a brain disease has incapacitated every other part of him as well. 
This helped. Thank you. My mind is having a hard time grasping the disease. 
Thank you for this report and blessings on your journey. 
How have things gone for you?
How are you doing now?
