[deleted]
[deleted]
You're not alone! I've been caring for my grandparents since I was 26 (I'm now 37). It's not easy, definitely find ways to make time for yourself. Even getting up 15 minutes early and going for a short walk can make a huge difference. 
I know this is a late post, but I too am taking care of my grandmother at 24 years old. I've been taking care of her literally 24/7. I only get a few hours off every few days and that is mainly just to do errands for the house like buying groceries and equipment for cleaning up the place. Despite all the work I do around the house WHILE taking care of my grandmother, she consistently says how this house is a mess and her garden looks awful and that everybody living here is just lazy and we should hire a cleaner because nobody here can lift a finger etc etc even though I tell her that I take care of it but I can't have the whole house perfectly spotless every minute of the day. 

Her expectations are almost impossible for me to achieve and to be quite honest, it sometimes really gets to me and I simply break down (I suffer from depression and anxiety). I have put my entire life on hold to take care of my grandmother and while obviously I'd prefer it if I could live my own life freely, I don't find it a burden to take care of my grandmother because I care about her very much. I just wish that she'd understand that I'm doing my absolute best despite everything that's going on. 

My 25th birthday is coming up soon and I've pretty much lost contact with all my friends so even if I did have the day to myself, I wouldn't really have anybody to spend it with. 

Sorry, didn't mean to rant but I just needed to get this out somewhere because it has just been building up in my head and I can't take it anymore.

EDIT: Formatting.
Thank you for sharing your story with me! I can't imagine the stress of everything you guys went thru. I got very lucky that my sister works as a nurse for a hospice care agency. So she new how to handle eveything for the most part legally and medically and what not. Just she does more of the behind the scenes work and takes her to appainments while im more physically here caring for her. My grandmothers also really depressed after my grandfather passed. I try to make her days stimulating and keep her active. But its super hard she doesnt like doing pretty much anything. I can tell you have a lot of love and compassion  for your mom! She is very lucky to have you caring for her also! 
Thank you! 
I been struggling with this glad to know I'm not alone. 26 male. I lived with my nana since 14 to 16 to my age now. My mom died when I was 19. I been in bad spiraling depression. Barely holding a job. My family pretty much barely puts up with my shit because the constant bullshit I put them through in the past.. but I was homeless since 16. I was on drugs and I didn't know jack shit about life. I was 300 pounds overweight ugly. Depressed no gf. And I lost my virginity to a prostitute at the age 18 thanks to my mother who was a og drug dealer/booster. And she was addicted to crack.. it was hard growing up for me. My dad took me in for money reasons as a youth. I went to foster care got beat for nonstop 3 years straight. 2 years I spent alone cause my twin got adopted by a rich family that only wanted a girl. I was a boy alone.. scared and fucked up in the head. I've seen things I can't even express or explain as adult. Now my nana watched most her children die. Including my mother. All I have is my sister and my nana. My dad's mom and grandad died when I was 22. He stopped talking to me after that. It's just been hard growing up so fast. Life.. death.. drugs.. homelessness. I barely have a job. And I'm constantly being belittled by my aunt whose too good now cause her daughter married into money. I'm the bad guy.. the one who never made it. So I take care of my nana in a cockroach infested apartment which we can barely afford rent why I bust my ass at work cause I'm afraid of going back to being homeless.. I don't know how I'm doing it. I just get up and drink away the pain hoping I don't die one day from stress or something else. P.s. I live in a ghetto neighborhood in CA. So besides gangs and being harrased on the streets.. I guess I'm barely living.. haha..
