I think you need to keep going to doctors until you find an answer. Are you depressed? Do you have iron deficiency anemia? 
A few things that could be causing these symptoms that are more likely than dementia at your age:
1.  Lack of sleep!! Seriously.  We call it “Mom brain”.  Having a newborn/child and not getting good quality sleep will cause brain fog and all the other things  you mention.   Start there. Uninterrupted sleep is crucial.  Check with your doctor on how much you need at your age.  Remember, your body is growing and changing right now so regenerating at night is important.  
2.Lack of proper nutrition/diet.  Ensure you are eating and eating well. Same with hydration. 
3.The other: ADHD. My son has this.   He has several of the symptoms you mentioned.
4.Drug use.  NOT implying anything here but IF you are using any drugs, they kill brain cells.  They cause symptoms as you described. 

You really need to sit down with a guardian or parent and tell them everything!  Don’t leave anything out.  If a scan didn’t reveal
Anything, I would start with good sleep and nutrition.  Hope you are feeling better soon!
How are your parents handling this? Since this involves your school attendance, have you talked to a school counselor?
It is impossible to get dementia at this age as it takes 20-30 years worth of proteins building up to have any diagnosable or noticeable symptoms. That said something is wrong, and it could be any number of mental or physical disorders. 

Have they run your thyroid panel? All 3 kinds, not just one. What kind of brain scan did they do? Did they look at your pituitary at all? Do you have any digestive issues? Familial history with this sort of thing? I strongly recommend a psychiatrist. Even if what you have won’t be helped by them they would still have a better plan of action for you than the Internet.
Have you had your B12 levels checked?
Have you had any tick bites? If so has your doctor run a tick panel? Ticks transmit a lot of diseases (including Lyme) that come with debilitating symptoms, including brain fog. 
You might try xposting in /r/AskDocs, people here have made some useful suggestions, you might get additional ideas in askDocs...
I feel like I’m going through this right now. Did you figure out what was wrong with you because it might help me to?
I'm not depressed & I dont think it's iron deficiency anemia either since I have been eating a healthy diet, especially since I started experiencing all these different symptoms. The reason I think it might be dementia is because ive been doing some research and I can really relate to the symptoms. I'm gonna keep going to doctors though, thanks. c:
ADHD is a really great point to think about for this.
Thank you so much. c:
My parents do what they can to help me. They let me stay home if I feel really bad and try to help me find the cause of all this. My school knows what's going on too.
Well I did an mri scan of my brain and they said everything seemed normal and I also did like 3 different blood tests and everything came back normal as well and they checked my blood pressure which ofcourse was totally fine as well. I probably will go and see a psychiatrist asap tho.
No, but I doubt that's the cause of my symptoms since my diet is pretty rich in B12.
When I think about it I actually did get a tick bite around the time I started feeling like this, ill try to get it checked out. Thanks. c:
Hypochondria is a real thing, particularly in the world of WebMD. It's exceedingly unlikely that you've got dementia at 15 - a quick google says that the youngest person ever diagnosed was in their late 20s... soooooo... that's probably not it. Do like /u/bpoppygirl suggests and keep going to the doctor with your symptoms and they'll do what they can to figure it out.
Are you male or female? Females need more iron.
A psychiatrist is a good idea, soon, as is a neurologist.  Psychiatrists are experts in physical as well as psychological brain issues, so that's a good move and it doesn't mean you're 'crazy.'  This could be any number of things, but it seems real (i.e. physical) particularly when you include unexplained weight loss and occasional twitching.  Like the other posters, though, I don't think it's dementia.
But what were the blood tests for? Have you been having mood swings? Appetite changes? Muscle cramps? Where are the headaches located? What was the timeline for symptom progression?
If you have a gene mutation MTHFR you can't utilize the B vitamins or folate/folic acid. Buy METHYLATED B vitamins and watch what happens as your mental energy SOARS. 
I have a 50% MTHFR genetic abnormality. Bought Jarrow's METHYLATED B vitamin and Folate but the Thorne's 5-MTHFR is IMO very, very good. Bought it at a compounding pharmacy in San Diego that is very good.
Definitely do! 
I will lol, I'm pretty uneducated on dementia.
Male :p
totally, thanks.
Well I remember one of them was just to check blood sugar but I don't really recall what the other blood tests was for. And I haven't really had muscle cramps but I have had alot of muscle twitches. Like sometimes one of my legs will just jump and stuff like that. And usually when I get a headache it hurts in like a small area for a few seconds and then goes away usually coming back again after like a minute.
How about digestive issues. Weird cravings? going too much or too little? Any pains? Weight gain or loss? Have you moved recently or gone on vacation anywhere new?
Well weirdly enough I have actually been loosing lots of weight lately. It's really weird since I do eat alot of food, it's not like i'm on a diet or anything. Thanks for being so helpful btw, i'm sorry if I make no sense but i'm feeling so out of it right now.
Have you been unusually warm? Thirsty? Twitchy? Irritable? 
Ive only had like muscle twitches. The twitches haven't really gotten worse over time like the other symptoms though, I guess that's something to be happy over atleast.
I think a full thyroid panel is your best plan, all 3 thyroid hormones instead of just the one. A psychiatrist can do that for you
oh okay, ill do that.
