It’s my opinion - and I could be wrong  - that anything that keeps them active and engaged is a good thing, even if it comes at the expense of a lie. There’s a certain level of playing make-believe, role-playing, and improv that is needed to keep it up. If shopping is the one activity that keeps her happy, by all means, go shopping. Place items in the cart while browsing, but send her to the car while you “check out”.  She won’t remember what she “bought”, right? 
Does she enjoy reading?  What about getting her a few magazine subscriptions?  I'm sure your grandfather would enjoy as well and you can keep some scattered throughout the house for her to pick up and peruse.
The music of my youth could be heavy metal, disco, punk, reggae, new wave. Guess wrong and I would be pissed. You need to ask her sang named, then download them from youtube and put them on a SIMPLE mp3 player.

Try a handheld solitaire game, like the old school radioshack one. 

If she ever knitted or crocheted, by her a yard. Green white and orange, make me something for st patricks day or red white and blue, for the 4th of july.

How is she at cooking? 

Maybe find a seniors weekly bingo game.

Try to focus her to collect troll dolls. They are cheap and infinity variable. 

Go with the flow. Give options then listen to which one she is drawn to, even if it is bat-shit crazy. 

This is about your last chance to lock something into her head before she slides away, so the closer you can get to what she would do at 30, the better it should go. She is who she was, not what you dream she could be.

Acceptance is hard. 


You could return the stuff a week later. 

OR, go shopping in Dollar Stores or Thrift stores.

Good luck to you. She could live another 10 or more years with Alzheimers. She may need to go to a facility at some point. 
Could she be persuaded to check out a FarmVille type game? Then she could satisfy the urges that drive her need to shop. Or some communities offer classes (through the Silver Sneakers program, so it's free) for people with dementia. I teach one at a memory care facility, and I've been astonished at the increase in flexibility and balance displayed by the people who participate. 
Not all do; I'm used to people nodding off or waking up during the 30-minute class.

Thrift shops often have tons of old magazines dirt cheap.

She might be ok shopping there, too. Don't let her spending get out of control. 
Ooh I like the magazine idea! 

My grandmother is dyslexic, but nobody believed her growing up, and she never got help for it, so reading is sort of a sore subject. 
But some good celebrity magazines with lots of pictures of stars doing things would be great!
She could read a little bit, and it'll gets her away the TV for a little bit of.
I apologize, when I said music of her youth, i meant Sinatra and the other crooners. The ones that were always playing at her house that she would sing along to. She's got CDs all over the place. 


Thank you for your other suggestions.  

I think the biggest problem is that when my grandma was 30-40-50, she was agoraphobia (or so they tell me. I wasn't there). 
I guess she would rarely ever leave the house, but would always be rearranging the furniture. My dad jokes that every time he went to see my mom, he'd need a new tour of the house because it was always different. 
So when she did eventually learn to leave the house, it would be to go shopping. Then she started volunteering at the salvation army, where she would shop. But I also remember her being so proud when she'd take there and tell me about how she got to be the person who decides what clothing costs what price because she has such good taste and style. 


So because of that, I've tried playing designer with her closet, going through her clothes, getting her to talk about the pieces and make outfits. She just isn't into it. 

I've never seen my grandma show any interest in anything else. 

From what I've seen, her life was her family, shopping, and traveling after my grandfather retired.  

I'll start asking more questions about the traveling. :)
Another thing to look for is what is annoying to her and try to remove annoyances. Some times the simplest things make people grumpy all day. Bright lights and sunshine makes people feel better. Good sleep is essential.


