I got the test and have APOE4. I, based on my own reaction, don't recommend testing for any of the dementias, since there is not anything that has proven helpful in preventing AD or the others. There are plenty of correlation studies, but no cures and no interventions, yet. 

For me, I don't think it was a good choice, at all. There just isn't enough information about these diseases.

They do not know why about 20% of people with one APOE4 don't come down with the disease by the time they're in their 80s. 

Seeing my mom, grandmother and great grandmother all succumb was one thing. Discovering I had, with certainty, lost the genetic lottery on this gene has NOT done ANYTHING AT ALL to improve the quality of my life. Period. 

That said, I figure it cannot hurt to go with the things that probably help. Try not to get concussions. Try not to narrow any of the passages that get nutrients to your brain. Sleep. Try to build backup pathways in your brain.

There are things I did before the test I will keep doing. I eat right more than 80% of the time, which is to say less than 20% of my calories are not both nutrient dense and minimally processed.  I am a lifelong exerciser.  I try at least once a week to do something that seriously challenges my coordination, balance, and endurance. I see how long I can balance walking on a curb, try a lucky charms kick, and do a super long, low intensity cardio workout, for example.  I practice good sleep hygiene. I work hard to regularly do something intellectually fatiguing, as in I'm actually trying to learn Chinese. 

I doubt I would stop doing any of this if I didn't know about the gene. 


Hey, my mom was just diagnosed with FTD at the age of 55 about 2 months ago. I haven’t done any testing yet, but if your mom has one or the genetic mutations you have a 50% chance of inheriting it, if she doesn’t have it and there is no family history or dementia then your chance is almost the same as anyone else’s. It’s really hard, I still haven’t decided whether or not I want testing or not, but I’m only 24 so I should have time.
