There isn’t a nice way to say this but it’s not really going to matter depending on his stage. Maybe he can work it fine now but at some point in the future he won’t be able to and learning a new system will not help that. 
What I can say is if he prefers a certain genre or TV show to just record those and make it easily accessible. My mother likes old Westerns so we fill the DVR with them so anyone that is with her can put them on since she can’t. 
When I moved my dad in with me he was on his own for four hours a day. We also only have a roku. I made step by step instructions with pictures on how to use and operate it. Sadly he only watched star trek boys get as actually deciding on something to watch sent him into a tizzy. 

Personally I woukd suck it up for right now and find a cheaper package as the flipping through to stop on something is much easier than trying to pick. 

Maybe look into an antenna too for the broadcast channels. 
Honestly, just get bare-bones dishnetwork or something. There's no chance he can work a streaming device by himself, but you could still have it there for when someone who can work it is around.
There is a relatively new Roku channel called "Pluto" that is essentially several dozen live streaming cable-like channels. If it's possible to make a device autoplay a single channel, and you could get to that one, it might be a nice compromise.

With that said, we replaced my parent's TV with a Roku 'smart' TV a couple of days ago. My dad really struggled with the Roku remote. The Roku remote we had places the volume controls on the side, and when my day would grab it to try to get his finger on the power button, he'd mash the volume buttons on the side.

I'm very thankful that their cable box universal remote had a setting that worked with the new TV. Once I set that up, everything works from the one control the way it has for years. If the remote hadn't supported this TV, I think my siblings and I would be getting daily updates about how this new TV just doesn't work for months.
