>I hope if I leave things out for her she will do something other than watch TV.

We've tried this - colouring books, simple craft things, simple puzzle books. All sorts of things. She's 'enthusiastic' when she's shown these things, but then they vanish for ever and she's back to staring at the television with the volume as low as it can go.

She constantly fiddles with her fingers and hands so we've also tried a sort of 'fidget blanket' but she's managed to hide that away too, which is something of a miracle in her tiny flat. We think she may give things to her carers, although we do know they aren't meant to accept gifts.

We don't think she can easily follow conversations on the television, can't recall the question on quiz shows long enough to know if the response is right or ridiculously funny, and she doesn't seem able to recall enough of a drama to know what's happening, so it's visual wallpaper that keeps her happy enough for now.

That isn't at all helpful - but try, try anything and see if it works. You've got nothing to lose.

*edited to add:*

Separately, my MiL goes to a local Day Centre two days a week where she mixes with people of her own age, does 'craft' things and has a good old natter and a friendly lunch. It does her the world of good, and gives her a reason for 'feeling tired'. Maybe there's something like this near your Grandmother?
My dad likes the fidget spinners. Good thing is that they are in clearance everywhere. He's lost several. Maybe a baby doll, especially one that teaches kids how to button and zip.  

Music is great.  Create a playlist from the time she was young.  Alz folks really respond to music.  

My dad likes to sort things. So we have toy cars out and he picks them up and looks at them, then he will arrange them. Depending on how far along she is you can give her a chunky kid's puzzle.

Good luck! 
Folding laundry, especially towels and dish cloths
My mother loves her Kindle Fire.  She mostly plays games (mahjong, jigsaw puzzle, etc) and it really keeps her occupied.
Depending on how far along she is- sorting coins.
My grandma would do dishes & laundry (folding/ironing)

When given colouring books, my wife enjoys them, but really only follows through with them if there is someone sitting by her side -- a family member, her helper, or the behavioural therapist.

For a long while, my wife would sit and watch Cable TV News. I let her do that because, as you indicated, I was sure she couldn't follow any plot line to a movie.

At the urging of her family, I've switched channels so now she watches a channel that features a rota of 2 1/2 Men, Friends, and other assorted pablum. She actually enjoys watching these shows, and I can hear from the other room how she laughs out loud from time to time. May the gods forgive me, I find myself laughing at 2 1/2 Men too.
We are working to find out but it is quite a lot to try and find assisted living for her already. I am going to print out some coloring sheets and maybe they will stand out compared to a regular book.
Ooo, folding laundry saves me time and makes her feel useful. I'll try that this weekend!
I wish we could give her electronics! Before she was diagnosed we gave her an iPad and she couldn't even find the home button. You inspired me to see if she likes to play with cards though, thank you!
> only follows through with them if there is someone sitting by her side

That's the thing, isn't it. I guess they aren't always able to remember that the books etc are there, nor what to do with them unless there's a helper.

>she watches a channel that features a rota of 2 1/2 Men, Friends, and other assorted pablum

That's great, and you're there to make sure she doesn't lose all the channels or switch over to something she mightn't enjoy.

We recently discovered that my MiL had managed to remove all but three channels from her television, although we've no idea how she managed it. It was a pity that the ones she'd left untouched weren't even vaguely entertaining. She was delighted when we were able to magic the others back again by retuning.
It's worth a try, even if you can only encourage her to do it when you're with her and when you're also colouring with her.

The other stuff is hard to arrange, including the adult daycare. It's a bit like a playgroup for grown-ups, and is a wonderful thing. I hope there's one in your area.
