My granny was like this. We had doctor and police tell her she couldn’t drive and she still did. We finally started hiding/taking her car keys and eventually her car got “stolen”. 

It helped when I would give my granny two options (do you want to brush your teeth or change clothes) that way they still feel in control.

I’m sorry you’re in the club. 
Good question, I can’t mention the doctor even if I put it as “I am going to the doctor, do you want to go with me and get your check up too?”  Though since my appt isn’t till feb he is starting  it to yell as much. I suggest it about once a week we got him to go to the doctor for the first time in October he was given a neuro referral but refused that follow up 
The unfortunate thing is that we end up relying on meds. Some of that behavior is based on anxiety and there are different meds for that.  The anger can be helped with what the psychiatrist calls 'mood stabilizers'.  The hard part is getting a referral to the psychiatrist - you could get that from the neurologist (better choice) or GP.  The neurologist my father sees doesn't want to manage meds like that so that's what the psychiatrist is for.  Edit: also, stand down on trying to explain things to him that are a part of limits on what he can do. Just say you want to help and that he's having trouble remembering things - so can he say what he wants you to do? Just smile, don't argue and make sure that he can tell what you are trying to do - go slower, do things one at a time - so he doesn't get suspicious. patience.
I hate to think I'm trying to deceive someone at a disadvantage, but I've got to figure something out. For a while I could talk about the 'pretty doctor' who is sooo cute. And how she wanted to see him.  That worked for a while, and seems to work until it is time to get ready to leave and there is a change of heart and no go - or slow-go (an hour late for the last neurologist appointment and the office was closing when we got there - had to reschedule after I took the day off work). Some doctors are more accommodating about this than others - the GP told me we just can't cancel at the last minute like that any more. They have an hour in the mornings for walk-in appointments and I'll just have to try 7:30am. The funny thing is once he's there he's flirting with all the nurses, assistants and staff and enjoying himself but I can't get that enthusiasm called up to get him there 80% of the time. 
