Activity books in any shape or form are a good idea and most people with dementia will use them when they're in company but when they're on their own they won't touch them - because they don't know what they're for, and have no incentive to even open them.
I feel like things around cutting and folding are a good call. I know why grandma is very deliberate and particular in her actions, so something line based like that would be a good opportunity for her to be a perfectionist 
I think variety may be the key. Have a different activity on each page. And keep it simple. Like you would in a kids book.

 Some could be sorting, some could be trivia (old movie stars, music etc), simple mazes, a few poems, interesting pictures (my mother loves looking at pictures, include some older things like an old car) some funny rhymes, basic “can you spot the difference” pictures, “would you rather” questions (like would you rather swim in a lake or sit on a beach/ picnic on a mountain or eat in Paris) colouring pages, fill in the blank games like “easy come, easy __” or “what rhymes with cat”


Some of these could be done on their own, others with friends/ caregivers.
I’ve often thought about developing these sorts of things myself, but I’m too burnt out caring for my mother and raising a small child.

I wish you luck. Try to keep whatever you produce affordable. Families try so many different things, it’s easier when they aren’t expensive.



We've been trying to get my father interested in some activities that he can either do on his own, or perhaps with some initial prompting by a CNA or Nurse at the nursing home.

He is very bored, which causes him to become depressed.

Here are some thoughts about some idea for activities that might be something to think about.  Mostly, we're finding what doesn't work  -- if we found what worked, we'd be doing that. :)

My father knows he has dementia.  He doesn't want to admit to it, and you can't use the term dementia around him.  He does accept Neurocognitive Disorder, as he does understand he has a condition that affects his ability to think and to concentrate.

Anything that reminds him of his dementia or makes him feel like he is being treated like a child makes him very upset.

Anything with coloring or reminds him of an activity that a child would perform also causes him to become upset.

In general, he needs an activity geared for a 1st grade level.  But, he still has 83 years of experience in living and 40+ years in working in a technical field.  That desire and knowledge is still in there -- the problem is in getting it out on paper. 

For example, connect-the-dots just for the sake of connecting dots would make him feel like he is being treated like a child -- but, connecting circuits or simple concepts might make him interested -- something he can feel is his 'figuring out' on his own making it more of a game or challenge, rather than just something that might feel like busy work.

For him, something that is at that 1st grade level but also has an element that lets him pursue his engineering/mathematical nature in some small form would probably be of interest to him.  He used to finish Sudoku puzzles all the time.  He is no longer capable of that, but perhaps something with some relavent matching or connecting things (in a non-childlike manner, but also easy) would work out for him.

Something that makes him feel like he's using his mind and also being creative at the same time might work well for him.  


Kudos to you for learning more about dementia and trying to develop creative, meaningful activities! There is a wide range of people with dementia and in varying stages. We used to bring colorful books for my father-in-law but he stashed them all under his bed and said he needed to "hide them so they wouldn't get stolen". As /u/6beesknees pointed out, they don't know what they're for and won't open them.

After a hospital stay, my FIL was released with an "activity quilt" similar to the ones for toddlers/young children. It was a soft lap quilt with zippers, buttons, different textures etc. something to keep fingers busy. (As his Alzheimer's progressed, my FIL got very fidgety and we even had to buy special "anti-strip" clothing that opened in the back so he wouldn't take his clothes off at inappropriate times.) So you may want to consider some sensory activities that don't involve a great deal of dexterity or concentration.
Oh and Large print is a bonus
[Large colorful floor puzzles](https://www.amazon.com/Djeco-DJ07171-Puzzle-Animal-Parade/dp/B007NXRLQ8) are very popular with the demented here. Push two dining room tables together and come back and take it apart every hour. No way could they do an activity book, no focus.
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
We enthusiastically bought my MiL various 'things to do' books because that's what the professionals said we should do. We made sure we sat with her for a while to get her used to the idea and joined in too, so she wasn't ever faced with a book of empty pages.

Each book has vanished, along with the pens and pencils that were with them. They didn't go into the bin because I empty her bins for her, so they've probably been tucked away somewhere because she decided she didn't want them. There's no point in asking her because her memory is so poor, it's also selective and she doesn't like to be 'challenged' - confronted - which she calls 'bullying', even though it isn't, but she uses language slightly differently these days as her available vocabulary is getting smaller.

She goes out to a Day Centre three times most weeks, where she meets friends and 'does things'. Her key (repeated) phrase is that "the staff are very caring". We know, though, that it's a bit like a Play Group for the elderly and it's essential for her, and their, wellbeing because it's a social group of the same generation, with common experiences they can share.

Nobody know the truth about how people with dementia occupy their time when they're alone and, indeed, nobody knows what anybody else does when they're alone - it's private time; we all need it. 

We're fairly sure that my MiL spends most of her days sitting in her chair with the television on - which is what a lot of people of her age do, and nobody says they shouldn't. She's fairly ancient, so gets tired easily, and these 'days off' are when she gathers the energy for her next Day Centre visit. She has lunch and a teatime meal delivered, and carers visit, so she is checked on a couple of times each day. We also visit when we can.

The main thing is that she's 'content', and that we leave her with a smile on her face. It seems we're going past the raging stage of her dementia, which is something of a blessing in disguise because it means that the condition is progressing.

Parts of the diagnostic points within the MoCA are copying a drawing and drawing lines to link letters. Patients may not be able to do this very well and won't recognise their own mistakes - but if they later look at a 'bad' drawing they will know it's wrong. This is where books aren't so useful - if they make mistakes they won't want to revisit the activity and I think it's why the Day Centre, for example, uses single page activities.
I'm personally not too concerned, because she is very slow and deliberate. But, when looking at the generalised audience, it does have the potential to be a safety concern, now that I think about it.
My late father-in-law was in a memory care wing of an assisted living facility. One day we were visiting him and wanted to borrow a pair of scissors to cut off a tag on a new shirt we had just bought for him. The staff didn't even store scissors in the memory care area. If they found anything sharp in residents' rooms, the items were confiscated.
Hate to put a dampener, but we tried one of those. It was a little thing, smaller than a tea towel. We thought it was a good idea, and a way to keep my MiL's hand occupied. She does fidget with her hands, and picks at imagined itches so much that she makes sores on her lower arms, which then need creams and lotions.

Didn't work because the quilt vanished. It's amazing how one person with dementia, living in quite a small flat, can make things vanish.

My plan, if I can ever manage to make it, is to make one that is actually big enough to cover her knees - "to keep them warm" - and have pockets and zips that actually work so she can hide her keys and other important things in them. Maybe then there'll be a reason for having the quilt and she won't hide or "lose" it and, when it isn't keeping her knees warm she might, we hope, put it over the arm of her chair so it doesn't vanish and/or will keep fiddling with the zips and buttons rather than her own skin. 


