It’s ok, and we can’t change the past. Your grandma’s condition would have deteriorated whether you visited or not.

Moving forward, do what you can to brighten her days, even if she doesn’t know who you are. You can visit, and just be a stranger who makes her smile. Send her little care packages or cards, bring flowers, whatever she likes. 

Long after your grandma is gone, you’ll sleep peacefully knowing that you treated her well in the end, and brought her some happiness. I hope that your mom, uncle, and cousin have come to understand that she is not well, and that the accusations were fueled by a brain disorder.
My wife still remembers me, for which I am grateful. She doesn't remember that the Christmas present I gave her came from me, and has expressed joy that her daughter gave it to her.

I tell this anecdote not to complain, but to acknowledge that the most important thing to me is that she be happy. She still carries around the gift bag with the present, and is starting to put into the bag other things that have meaning to her.

If your great-grandma is still capable of appreciation, affection, and joy, that is the important thing. When you get in the car on the way home, you can feel sad. I sometimes feel sad that my wife doesn't recognise my gift-giving gestures. But I feel such happiness when she gives me a smile or a laugh.
>Fast forward another 2 or 3 year later to last September ... she asked who I was, who my mother is and how I was related to her ...

>Would she still have remembered me if I saw her more often?

I'll answer you last question first and say that no, she wouldn't. She might have remembered your name and would have brought it up in conversation with other people, so it would have appeared that she 'remembered' you but it would have been hard for her to link the name to the person in front of her.

My MiL, who I see at least once a week, knows my name especially when she links it with my husband's name. When I'm in front of her and on my own she never refers to me by anything at all, although I think she knows she should recognise me because she knows she sees me regularly - I often wonder if she thinks I'm one of her carers. It's only when I'm with her son, my husband, that she seems to link the two things - name and person.

She has other children whose names she mentions, always as "x and y". She hasn't seen one of them for over a year, the other visited almost two months ago after a twelve month gap. After they'd gone she did know she'd had visitors, didn't know who it had been. She never, ever, mentions her children's spouses names. She has grandchildren and great-grandchildren, she is muddling their names and ages, and muddling recollections of time spent with them - we never correct her, because she thinks we're being nasty or are 'bullying' her when we do so.

The loss of language is a fickle thing and it can trick us into thinking they mean one thing when they actually mean something completely different.

They say, "I did it yesterday" - but don't actually know when yesterday was, just that it was in the past. The word they choose to use is almost at random, and is interchangeable with 'last week', 'months ago', or 'ages ago'. Money is another example and coins could easily be shillings, half crowns, ten pence, sixpence, two and six, pennies or pence. Notes can be, interchangeably, a pound, ten pounds, twenty pounds, ten shillings. They are all money, but the nouns are just used incorrectly and is one reason why people with any form of dementia can be easily tricked financially. Imagine somebody opening a purse or wallet stuffed full of £20 notes, and handing them all over for something that costs £5 - because they think they've got a purse-full of ten shilling notes (now equivalent to 50p). It can happen all too easily.

>These accusations [of stealing] have upset my mum deeply and she has not seen my grandma since (I have since learn that accusing people of stealing happens regularly in those diagnosed with Alzheimer’s and told my mum that it wasn't my grandma talking).

We have been accused of stealing to our faces and behind our backs. She has told relatives, care workers, doctors, and social workers that we have taken her money. We have not been questioned by the Police, we have not been locked up. It happens, it's quite a normal thing for people in the early/mid stages of dementia to believe.

My husband and his siblings share financial power of attorney - she afterwards managed to convince herself that the visit to the solicitor to arrange it was so that we could steal her money.

We have been told that 'he' (random man she reckons she knows) will 'sort us out' because she, "Knows what you're after" (i.e. her money). Our relatives have been told that we went into the bank, and were only stopped from clearing out her bank account because, "A nice lady phoned and asked if it was alright for these two people to have her PIN number" (thank goodness she was savvy enough at that time not to fall for that telephone scam, and thank goodness the relatives told us about the incident). 

We have been accused of ~~taking~~ stealing items of furniture - that we agreed to store for her because her flat was overcrowded. We returned them, and she still complains that these items are in the way.

We've had her screaming at us down the phone, accusing us of all sorts of ghastly things and meaning that we've spent hours talking things through and debating whether we can carry on - when we know the rest of the family can't, or won't, do a single thing to support her.

Each one of these things hurt, it hurt like hell. 

It still hurts when we go and help her through some medical incident/emergency, and she then tells other members of the family that we've made it all up - of course she didn't have a fall, and of course the paramedics didn't come to see her. She's fine!

She still has occasional tantrums with us, and says she never wants to see us again, or wishes that I would die of dementia because I'm lying about her having it ... thanks to some stupid doctor sending her a report of an assessment.

You have to take all this on the chin. It isn't them, it's their very broken mind talking and trying to make sense of things that they don't understand, because they have very limited memory.
Thank you. I somewhat find comfort knowing that her memory would have deteriorated anyway as it already was becoming evident but, I know that me not seeing her hasn't helped her memory of me.

I wouldn't wish Alzheimer’s on my worst enemy. It's upsetting how someone who used to be so happy and whose eyes used to light up with excitement, as well as being self-reliant and still used to; cook, do housework, look after herself and watch TV, has become someone who doesn't recognise many of the people around her and is unable to care after herself.  As I put it's like mourning for someone who hasn't passed yet.

Last time I visited her my Nan told me that my Uncle and Cousin have been seeing her, as his ex-partner told him the same happened to a member of her family and that it wasn't her fault she was accusing them of act they hadn't committed. I think my Mum may have conflicted feelings and since it's been several years since she last saw her she probably finds it hard.




I can only second this.  my mother has become aggressive and violent and feces fascinated.  it's awful but it's not uncommon with Alzheimer's.
