Hey there. I’m sorry you and your family are going through this.  I have no advice, just want to let you know you aren’t alone. It’s worth asking if they checked his blood pressure during this time. 
Ensure that you and your mother get a list of all medications they are giving him at the managed care home. They sometimes add stuff that isn't necessarily well tolerated.
They had checked it 10 min prior and it was a bit elevated but not a concern
I actually got that list an hour before this happened. This place is  super strict and meds
 They won't give OTC cold or even allergy pills without a doctor's approval. 

I gave the list to the docs when all this happened. Unfortunately I don't have approval to access his medical history ( we were going to sign that form when this happened) so I don't even know what they did to help him. My mom knows, but she can't articulate it coherently.

Oh well.
Good luck with this, it's a cruel illness and a really weird ride. Look for the good times -- and there will be some. 

And don't be fooled by "doctor's approval". The place where my FIL is had a useless psychiatrist who would prescribe drugs that are commonly used as "chemical restraints" and have little to no medical benefit for most dementia patients. The kicker there was it actually made him more angry and restless (when it wasn't making him groggy and sleepy). 
Thank you. I agree about the doctor approval thing, my point was the facility is almost neglectful and giving common over-the-counter medications to their patients like you know when they're sneezing from seasonal allergies or have a stuffy nose.

I'm fortunate that both my father and mother were RN's, my dad at a Maximum Security Prison for the criminally insane. Over many decades I've learned what to look out for and plus I still have my mom's knowledge and my disposal. A little bit anyway

My whole family is pretty damn skeptical and sure are not afraid to ask really tough questions, so we've got each other's backs and Dad has a lot have people at his back.
