It is difficult when the patient does not recognize that they have a problem. I had the same thing with my father. Unfortunately there's no magic thing to say. As you suggest, you can try to move the conversation on to another topic, but it might not work.
Sometimes you have to tell lies.

My MiL always hates where she lives and wants to move, then when she's moved she hates that place and wants to move - it's been her pattern ever since I've known here and it's immensely frustrating because each time we think we'll have cracked it, only for her to start all over again within a matter of days or weeks.

She has got her name down for a new place she's seen and heard about from a friend. She really has. Her name IS on a list. What she doesn't know is that her name will never progress up that list because that place won't take anybody with any form of dementia, because they don't have either the right sort of staff or the right sort of facilities.

It 'keeps her happy', though, to believe that 'one day' she will move to this new place. If I'm really honest she rarely mentions it any more, although a couple of years ago it came up again and again each time we saw her.

Maybe you could use a similar tactic with your mother - tell her that, yes, she can move but not just now because x,y,z, needs to happen first - and then firmly change the subject, maybe offer a cup of tea and a biscuit, talk about the weather and going shopping for something 'important'. Anything but letting her mind dwell on it.
She's pretty good at spotting diversion.  I need to be more subtle about it.  I've been watching Teepa Snow's videos on youtube and learning a lot, but still feel like I'm not being very effective in my communication right now.  
OMG, thanks, that's a great idea!  She picks up on the obvious changing of topics, but this more subtle approach is definitely worth a shot!

The lying is something that I have to reconcile with myself as being ok to do in this instance.  I have to understand that a falsehood may actually be kinder if it keeps her from getting agitated.
It's hard to tell lies, but sometimes it has to happen to protect them from the truth - and I hate even thinking about saying that.

The majority of people with dementia, any form of dementia, have no idea how 'bad' they are because they don't know what's going on around them, because their memory is so poor. Hiding that 'how bad' has to be a good thing, and is in their best interest, because it keeps their emotions a bit more stable. It's not something you could, or would, do with somebody who has something that doesn't affect the way their mind and their emotions work.
There are certain silver linings to not keeping some memories.  I would imagine many people with dementia would be mortified if they knew how they behaved.  They can't help it, and with Mom I try to remember that and it helps lessen the sting.
