We feel this way about the anti anxiety med ours was put on. Remeron is having the opposite affect.  Now instead of rigerous 10-5:30 sleep she wakes at all hours, crying and upset which she wasn’t before. And now her short term memory issues have multiplied and there are new long term deficits (forgot her sister is dead, can’t recall how to make a phone call or change her thermostat.)
Most people are given an SRI. There are also SNRI & NDRI.

Cocaine is an SNDRI. Serotonin–Norepinephrine–Dopamine reuptake inhibitor.

These drugs cause extrapyramidal symptoms e.g. akathisia https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x86aCDtvbT0&t=20s

Extrapyramidal symptoms include:PARKINSONISM  (characteristic symptoms such as rigidity) dystonia (continuous spasms and muscle contractions), akathisia (motor restlessness), , bradykinesia (slowness of movement), tremor, and tardive dyskinesia (irregular, jerky movements).

These drugs cause the body to have symptoms that resemble parkinson's, a neurodegenerative brain disorder. Neurodegeneration is the progressive loss of structure or function of neurons, including death of neurons.

These drugs also inhibit REM sleep. These are drugs that can barely be shown to out perform placebo even in short term trials. GET HER OFF THE DRUGS. THESE ARE POISON FOR THE HUMAN BODY.

Alot of doctors are completely misinformed about these drugs and hand them out like candy.

any questions just ask.

They increase dementia/parkinson's etc.

https://www.madinamerica.com/2016/10/antidepressant-use-linked-dementia/ The authors of a study published in Alzheimer Disease and Associated Disorders found that elderly individuals using antidepressants were at significantly higher risk for dementia when compared with both depressed and not depressed nonusers. The study, which is one of the few long-term studies focusing on associations between antidepressants and dementia, followed a large group of participants for up to 18 years.

twofold increase in the odds of developing some form of dementia, including Alzheimer’s. http://nationalpost.com/health/antidepressants-may-be-doubling-risk-of-alzheimers-and-other-dementias-study-suggests
It's so frustrating when they behave one way at home with family and a completely different way when there's 'a professional' around.

We see one very frail and very incapable old lady, the professionals 'see' a lady who 'presents well' and can/will tell them a whole pack of lies about her lifestyle. One of these is an act - we are confident that the one who sits in a chair all day is reality. She doesn't do cleaning, doesn't do laundry, doesn't cook etc., even though she tells 'them' she does!

The neurologist should listen to you and balance advice according to what they see and what they hear - that should be part of their expertise.

It might, though, be worth checking for a kidney infection which can have some strange side effects.
Oh gosh. That's terrible. Is she still on that medication? My family was discussing whether we should ask for a different medication, but hearing your experience makes me weary. Her neurologist seems fantastic and I'm sure he knows what he's doing, but we are just worried.
I did not watch the video yet, but I did read both links and will be sharing with my family at our next meeting. The neurologist said he had a different drug in mind should she worsen, but I don't know what it is. She did have fairly severe depression before this prescription which contributed to her losing fifty pounds over maybe four months. Her eating is better now, but barely. It's a tough choice because it seems like a feeding tube is on the table for the near future already. It's such a difficult choice. Thank you so much for taking time to answer me. I'm very grateful.
We actually just got a call that her blood work came back indicting kidney and liver issues actually so you may be on to something.
It is frustrating-we’ve found a lot of prescribing without monitoring for efficacy (is the dose working as intended) or potentially debilitating side effects. 

At one point they want to change from a pill to a transdermal patch. Her thin skin meant she had an abnormal dose and she was mean, angry and threatening.  The doctor wanted us to come in for another assessment before changing her back to the pill. A big fat waste of time and extra days of her alienating friends and family with the difficult behavior.

Being their advocate take some endurance - ask lots of questions.
Hey no problem I hope you and your family are doing okay.

when you talk to your neurologist
For whatever the reason the golden rule with psychiatric drugs are these benefits are exaggerated and the side effects downplayed.
Alot of doctors are not well informed about the dangers of these drugs .

When researchers using the freedom of information act accessed the clinical trials both given and not given to the regulators it was found they were very similar on the scale of depression as placebo. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4172306/ Here's one of the researchers talking about what they found. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UC5RZRG7-QQ&t=1s

these drugs aren't "antidepressants" they are just addictive psychoactive dissociative drugs similar to cocaine.

Pharmaceutical companies used to get away with alot when the regulations weren't strict as soon as the regulations got stricter this happened: 
"Pharma giants have cut research on psychiatric medicine by 70% in 10 years" 
https://www.theguardian.com/society/2016/jan/27/prozac-next-psychiatric-wonder-drug-research-medicine-mental-illness

I hope that's all it is, and that medication will sort it out.
