What about those milkshake type drinks - like Ensure and Boost. There could be some that have reduced sugar and still provide protein and fiber.  Even the similar ones that are meant for people on diets might be an option?  The extra protein and fiber could help reduce hunger.
I don't really know what is normal. But I'm wondering if you can help guide her towards more fulfilling meals (more fiber and protein, less refined carbs like sugar) if what she's eating isn't ideal. Has her diet changed at all? And I suppose that even if it hasn't, it's possible that progression of her disease(s) (Parkinson's, diabetes, etc.) have caused a change so that a different diet would be appropriate.

You might consider a different doctor if he's not taking this seriously. In addition, look for a nutritionist you can talk with. If your mother is being treated for diabetes, then it's possible that a nutritionist would be covered under her insurance so it doesn't hurt to check that out if cost is an issue.



This could also be a sign of depression/anxiety, and could be due to the onset of some sort of dementia that typically comes along with Parkinson's at some point. We noticed a significantly increased appetite with my dad a few years after his diagnosis of Alzheimer's (early-onset as he was in his early 60s at the time), and it was as if he lost all control when it came to portions or even flavor combinations. He'd mix ketchup with peanut butter, for example - eating it straight from a spoon. It turns out that the "problem" was mostly in his brain, but consuming sugar (like you're concerned with) was only feeding the problem. Some have even suggested that Alzheimer's/dementia could be another form of diabetes! 


Anyway, knowing that he wasn't truly hungry when he would go for food, we try our best to keep the "bad stuff" (breads, sweets, etc.) out of sight and keep portioned amounts of healthy snacks littering the living spaces so that if he's "hungry," he can grab a bite independently while still monitoring his intake. Drinking lots of fluids (not juices or sodas) helps fill him up, too. But - point is - a lot of it has nothing to do of the feeling of having a full or empty stomach and is instead triggered in his brain. The best we can do is let him graze on good things throughout the day and keep him physically active and engaged to prevent boredom. 
Could she have a thyroid issue? I think that can affect appetite and how much people eat too.
Ooh, that's a great idea. Thanks, I'll look into that! I actually haven't tried that yet.
I have tried *everything*. She is so damn stubborn. We have had a diabetic specialist come and visit, she's visited with a nutritionist, I try to help her eat healthier but any sort of vegetable or healthy food gets shoved to the side. She also refuses to see another doctor (I can't make her to see another really) because hers has "saved her life before" -eyeroll-. Thanks for your suggestions. I'll ask her neurologist if this could possibly be a sign of progression.
She does have a thyroid issue, but her doctor said it wasn't from that. He blood work came back normal apparently and she takes medication for it as well.
