i found that working from home to be able to help when needed is a crock of shit.  i had to leave my job and find a new job outside the house, but part time, so i can help when i’m home and concentrate fully on it, and try to enjoy being around my mother.  otherwise i was always upset that she kept breaking my concentration.  it’s a known fact that most caregivers end up leaving their jobs, if they had one.

find a way to leave the house to concentrate on your work. discuss with your boss (if you’re not self-employed) about taking certain time periods of the day to deal with caregiving issues, similar to when parents have to work from home when their kids are home sick.  some workplaces are becoming more helpful to caregivers and their needs.  try to find a place and/or time at home where/when you tell your family “if you want me to continue making money, please do not disturb between x and x oclock, unless it’s a genuine emergency”.  this can be hard to do, not only bc they’ll have trouble remembering/taking it into consideration, but also bc you’re probably going to feel guilty about it too.  that’s the thing you need to work on - it’s about creating boundaries - when YOU stick to them, you’ll find that after a while at least THEY’LL stick to them.  part of your own process of growth, maturing, defining your priorities as an adult in your own right, not as an extension of either of them.

short term, yeah, you’re burnt out. try to get out of the house to do something relaxing by yourself or with some friends.  again, you’ll probably feel guilty but chances are your mom and grandma can handle things on their own - they might even feel boosts of confidence that they can do things themselves without your help, respect you more when you’re there, and be happy you’re living your own life.

if i’m way off base, my apologies. this just really reminded me of my own past situation.

either way, good luck with this!  dementia and caregiving is a long distance marathon not a sprint - pace yourself!
Is she on any meds to help her sleep?  Or can she be?  I'm not talking about drugging her to. Zombie-ville, but enough for a night's sleep.
Maybe try seroquel, it worked for my dad.

Or get an in-home caregiver?
Feel for ya...similar boat but was my mom. 
For me:
 -daily exercise 100% a must no exceptions. (Hot yoga)
-healthy diet
-healthy 3g/day weed prescription for myself! 

I still have periods of uncontrolled depression and guilt - i try a mantra of "let it go, this too shall pass" 

Good luck. 
You are not alone. 
1 breath at a time some days...
Perhaps a way to cope would be to realise that she is becoming two different people. One person is the person you knew and loved and the other is dementia. Sure, hate dementia but remember that she was the former. 
get IEM earphones which are noise isolating... I recommend Etymotics. Seriously, when my mom went through a phase of screaming like a banshee for 2 months it's the only thing that helped. Grant yourself the gift of peace and quiet. It will seriously diminish so much anxiety. 
I'm not the one who usually handles her meds, my mother is normally in charge of that, I'd have to check.

There was some reasonable success with CBD (non psychoactive) droplets to help calm her down during the day, but they don't appear to help at all during the night. 
Hah, I usually smoke for my own anxiety.  Been on a bit of a tolerance break, and that's not helping things either unfortunately.  Thank you for the kind words.
This is, effectively, how we deal with my MiL.

She is my Mother in Law, she is my husband's mother, and was quite challenging and selfish when she was in her prime. But that person no longer exists. 

Instead we have a very old lady who needs a lot of care and attention, is often belligerent and unpleasant, but who without our help and support would be in a very bad way because she can't look after herself.

We've gone through phases of wanting to walk away, but know we can't because of who she is. So she's 'our patient' and the moment we started thinking that things became a lot easier. Doesn't mean it doesn't hurt when she's foul, but it helps.

>I want to be the caring grandson, but I cannot deal with it anymore.

Yes, you *can* deal with it because she is your Grandmother. 

Take some more time and learn more about her condition and perhaps even share some of the worst of her excesses on here - where you *will* get support.
We had good luck when the doctor prescribed over the counter melatonin to help with sleep.  

It sounds like you are in burn out mode.  I’ve been there and so has anyone in your situation.  You need a break plain and simple.  It may seem impossible to take but you must take time for yourself.  Your body and mind will force you to if you don’t plan it out ahead of time.   I have to tell myself I am taking time for them.  Taking time away whether it’s a day or a week makes me a better caregiver.  
