My husband bought a bird feeder that was put together with screws, and took it apart. He took it to where his dad lives and asked him for "help" putting it together. So not only did his dad get to tinker, he also felt like he was being useful (he would fret before that he wasn't any use to anyone). While at first he thought it was a silly and simple thing to need help with, he did help and it kept him busy.

My husband would take it apart when he got home, and bring it back the next visit since his dad wouldn't remember helping him with it before.
This is something that I'm really struggling with too, I wish I could think of something like this for my mom who's probably at a similar stage. I think there's such a huge gap in what's available, all of the things named as Alzheimers activity products seem so childish and for the very end stage, but not really anything for now.. I had a quick look on Amazon and just typed in 'easy 3D puzzle' some of those things might work for your dad? Wishing you all the best of luck 
Occupational therapist here!
Can I ask a few other questions?
Does your loved one have someone who would be there to monitor his tinkering from a distance? Does he like more mechanical, electrical, tinkering vs building from scratch? 
Video games? I have heard of research suggesting they help. Most involve puzzles and tasks of some sort. 
Model rockets? 
At my dad's memory care, they had wooden toys that the residents assembled and painted.  The acceptable ones were donated to a children's charity, the messy ones were disassembled and put in a box to be "repaired".  They also had doll dresses that were printed on fabric to be cut out and sewn.  These kits were put together by a group in the attached independent living community- perhaps you could put something similar together for him. 
Another thing that he liked a lot was a tabletop piece of wood with various levers, switches, door latches, hooks & eyes, pieces of textured materials, etc.  His daughters gave him Luminosity which he had zero interest in plus when I tried it first made me stressed out. Books with simple stories and a few pictures were good for awhile. (5th grade level, circa late 1940s, purchased at thrift store.)
Arduino kits? They’re electronics kits that aren’t quite low level but probably  can be accessed by lower functioning adults.
Model cars and the like? My brother had a full millennium falcon model he put together, and if he's interested he could paint them when he's done.
I would be careful about any project that could potentially be unsafe. My husband abruptly starting putting random things in his mouth even while supervised at Adult Day Center plus at home if I wasn't watching. Birdhouses were ok but after the 2nd one, he lost interest. Simple collage pictures were something he liked plus would explain what they meant to him. I have a basement & garage full of his MANY tools...during hospitalizations, he was quite good at dismantling the wires controlling the bed not to mention removing & coiling up any IV wires. Towards the end, his favorite thing was a cloth baby doll that he could undress and cover with "blankets."
oh, this is a really good idea! I did think about getting him an easy wooden bird feeder or bird house kit in addition to some simple wooden toy boat kits - I told him he could make some and give them away to the kids in the neighborhood, which he seemed to like the idea of.
oh cool! he's living by himself at the moment, with family, friends, and neighbors checking in on him. I'd say he leans more towards mechanical tinkering and making rather jury rigged "repairs" to things. He does still have pretty good instincts about a lot of stuff, though - I was visiting and putting up a curtain over a doorway using a cafe rod for him, and he said "you know, if you put one ring of the curtain on the far sides of the rod hooks, that will help it stay closed instead of shifting around", and he was absolutely right.

He also used to sculpt and carve but hasn't been doing it in a few years, but I'm trying to get him back in to art using air dry clay.
maybe...he never got in to them when my brothers and I were playing them (everything from original NES to N64). 
lol.
yes! I'm looking for the right...level? of wooden toy kits that aren't too expensive. I might ask my father-in-law if he could pre-cut some and then just send them to my dad for him to glue together and maybe varnish.

This is also when I wish my grandma had taught my dad to knit and crochet. I don't think he'd be able to learn it now.
I'm considering model cars for sure, especially if I can find a kit of his first car. I'm not sure if he has the patience, though - I know I don't!
He's not quite at the point where I have to worry about him putting stuff in his mouth, but I am definitely trying to avoid having him using sharp tools, power tools, etc. I did just purchase him a few wooden craft kits he should just be able to glue together.

I am SURE that as he gets into the later stages, he'll be the guy who is dismantling the medical equipment and so on. His father (my grandfather) was the same way - after the family took his keys away he started hot-wiring the car when he wanted to go somewhere, so they had to pull the wiring out...
I love the idea of making things to give away!
I think the key for him having purpose over keeping busy. I would look on here for some DIY gifts, or maybe even Pinterest. He could start making people things for birthdays, anniversary, Christmas, etc. 
Whatever he makes or fixes, it’s important that it is needed and not just to “keep him out of trouble”. Does that make sense? Places like hobby lobby have some great kits that are available at all different skill levels. 
One other thing I suggest is that your Grandpa and family fill out this packet. http://alzheimer.ca/sites/default/files/2017-11/All%20About%20Me-E-2015-FINAL-On-Line.pdf
It’s a great resource as he advances through this disease. As a health care professional, our job would be easier, and your loved one could be cared for better, if families would have this filled out and then bring it with them to the hospital, therapy, etc. 
You might also be able to contact a local middle/high school and see if their shop class would be willing to rough out some blanks of cars or planes or something that he could just sand and varnish.  
Eh, its not like he has to finish it
Me, too. I once read an article about a retired fella who built doll houses for the local children's hospital. Might have to get a few of those kits for my dad...
Wow, that packet is great! I'm really pleased that it includes so much about music. I already printed out a contact list for his neighbors and friends in case they need to get ahold of us, and was thinking of typing up a narrative for his doctors of all the things I've noticed as far as neurological changes.

I certainly do want to help him feel useful. I suggested he start making wooden toys for the neighborhood kids from some of those easy-to-assemble kits, and he liked that idea. I'm hoping my father-in-law (an avid woodworker) will be able to prep some really nice wooden boat kits for him to sand, assemble, and varnish that he can give as gifts or even give to the local sailing club to use as trophies.

Thank you so much for your help! It takes a special person to be an OT.
I suppose that's true, as long as he doesn't get frustrated by not finishing it.
Well thank you! I’m glad I could help 😊
I work in acute care right now by my heart I’m in memory care ❤️
It is difficult to predict l how alzheimers patients react to stuff.
