[deleted]
Are you under stress from anything? I know people in their 30's-40's who just have so much going on that they do very similar things. Life is much faster paced than it used to be and not everyone's brains handle multi-tasking the same way. Get a checkup just to be safe though.
I have the same issues with words that I know I know but I just can't remember. Two questions... Firstly, do you smoke weed? And secondly, do you get migraines?
It would be exceedingly rare for someone in their 30s to develop dementia, without some underlying cause. I have personally performed cognitive evaluations on hundreds of patients your age, with exactly your same complaints, and it is almost always caused by stress and sub-par coping skills, and/or lifestyle (lack of sleep, heavy drinking, poor nutrition, etc.). 

You should certainly see a doctor to rule out something like seizures, a thyroid problem, or some underlying neurological condition. But it's very unlikely to be Alzheimer's or another form of dementia.
I second the mindfulness/meditation practice.  CALM is an app that you can use to practice daily mindfulness.  It's great!
Agreed. Get plenty of sleep, start eating better, start exercising (all the stuff your doctor would tell you to do). Take up yoga or some kind of meditation. A lot of the early signs of Alzheimer's can be just stress in your life. Keep a journal of the things you think are not right and discuss these concerns with your doctor. If you still are unsettled, there is genetic testing which can tell if you are predisposed to developing the disease.
Thank you for your reply. I think excessive stress and poor sleeping habits are likely the cause here. Thanks again!
Yes definitely under high stress. I think this is the likely cause and feel reassured. Will check in with my doctor either way. Thank you!
The lack of sleep and high stress are most probably the cause. Thanks for taking the time. I appreciate it!
Thanks for your response. Certainly appreciate. I think stress and sleep are the culprits and will look into yoga and meditation!
If it makes you feel any better I have one friend who's 45 and forgot to turn the oven on to bake brownies and couldn't figure out why they weren't cooked, and another friend in his mid 30's who put his chapstick away-in the dryer instead of the bathroom drawer this week. Yes, he actually opened the door and put it inside. 
