This story...please share with any and every dementia support site and/or social media you belong...so many families need to read and know there are good moments. I work with Dementia Friendly America and breaking down the stigma starts with putting out into the community stories just like yours.  This stigma has led to so much hardship for individual's diagnosed with dementia and their caregivers.  Trying to shine the light on the actual disease process and how it affects the brain makes people see folks like your dad as a person first. ♥️ Thank you for sharing. ♥️
Please make sure that the staff at his home are aware that these calls are great fully accepted (if you haven't already) I work at a care home for residents with dementia, there have been times when a resident will be asking to call family and I have been told by senior staff to refuse the request as it could 'bother' or 'upset' family members. There are certain residents that are never refused as it is in their care plan that they can contact X, Y or Z at anytime/between this time and that time. 
That's so sweet. I've watched someone go through Alzheimer's and it was tough enough to witness in someone else's family. I hope maybe on days that aren't so crisp for your dad that if you sing any of those songs to him that maybe it'll bring him back.
My mum had dementia, she died over a year ago. So... this was sad for me to read. She didn't recognise me once, but she was alright every other time.

Unfortunately, she could be very difficult, so I distracted her with talk about cats, since we're both nuts about them.
I'm so glad you posted this, and even more glad that you got this experience. My father passed away last November, but he visited me in a dream last night. Although, he was sick (in my dream last night), it was still so nice to be with him. 

I can see that you do not need to be reminded to cherish these moments. 
I just went bonkers sharing this experience with all the groups I belong to. Thank You for the great comment and the advice.:)
Absolutely.....the staff are tremendous where he my Father is at. They are so on board with the idea.
Thank You for taking the time to read this post. I appreciate your compassion and support.
Animals are wonderful.....they do so much for all of us. Its kind of like music....some things just seem to bring people together and for a moment help us forget about the reality of whats really going on.
Thank You for sharing. My condolences to you......I have such a greater compassion for people and what you been through since going through my personal experience with my Father. 
It made her smile and it helped me - I found visiting the home a very stressful experience.
