Oh that’s cool. What are you tasked to design? I mean, is your redesign in terms of color schemes, decor, layout? 

In terms of your question, unfortunately I think the best answer is, “it depends.” It depends on the stage a person is in, on how their particular dementia manifests, what kind of day they are having, and even if you would even notice because; they might not let on that they had forgotten out of embarrassment.

Short-term memory is a funny thing. I regularly have conversations with my mom that go like this:

Me: “Let’s get dressed so we can go to the store.”
Mom: “Ok”

1.5 seconds later...

Mom: “Are we going somewhere?”
Me: “The store”
Mom: “Oh that’s right”

1.5 seconds later...

Mom: “What are our plans for today?”
Me: “We are going to the store”
Mom: “I wish you would tell me these things!!!”

There doesn’t have to be a pause in the conversation, or a trip to the bathroom for her to forget. That being said, she can occasionally remember things from the day before and be 3 steps ahead of me in preparing for it.  The brain is a strange and mysterious thing. 

Dementia is also about so much more than short-term memory loss. If you are interested there was this very super interesting social documentary about the experience of folks with dementia and their caregivers. It shows people in various stages and I think one of the takeaways (for me at least) is how “normal” people can seem even well into dementia.

Here’s a link that worked for me: http://vumoo.li/videos/play/watch-louis-theroux-extreme-love-dementia-85647




My mother has had AD for years and her short-term memory capacity over the last three years - judged from the time I would start to tell her of something to the time she'd forget what I'd said - went down from a day or so, to 10 minutes, then 5, then 3, then 1 minute, then down to 30 seconds, then 3 seconds. Eventually, she had no memory at all of what I was saying because before I'd even spoken a phrase, she'd forgotten it. 

The period her short-term memory lasted formed a persistent pattern: ie her short-memory was not sharp one day and less the other. It was a constant and constantly got less and less until it literally did not exist anymore. 

Her long-term memory also decreased over time. One day she would not remember her birthday, then her sister, other family, life events, my name, where she lived, etc. 

The long-term memories she's lost did sometimes came back and she'd act as if she had not forgotten them. But generally they did not come back. The long-term memory loss seemed to distress my mother hugely and I think put her in a kind of limbo of anxiety and depression as she did not know really where she lived, who she lived with, where her loved ones were or who they were, and what she did with her day. Reminding her of long-term memories via photos etc really didn't help much except in the first few years of her AD. Then often she would not believe the memories I tried to give her back. Then she started deluding herself about where she lived etc, and hallucinating about what had and was happening in the present.

So terrible :( 
Absolutely true, also to add to that, once-familiar faces of close family getting confused with older memories (thinking your daughter is your younger sister), certain persistent events from childhood (being left alone that one time in the shop) becoming world-shatteringly big issues (constantly being afraid of abandonment), etc.
