I am in a similar situation being on alert in case my mother develops dementia. 

She repeats herself too and that’s been an habit of hers for a long time though, or since ever. 

From what you said alone I wouldnt be particularly concerned on your mother because just because of the day in the year thing, that doesnt concern me absolutely, it can happen, I’m not sure how many days there are in a year, I THINK 365? I care very little. 

As for some confusion, repeating and not remembering what she said...the last one is the most concerning to me, but not necessarely. As people age, its normal memory gets worse. Anyway do see what other replies you get as I am no expert of dementia, I am just like you concerned for my mother. 
My mom is a bit further along with memory loss.

Biggest red flag is an increase in driving accidents- are you seeing more scrapes and dents on her car?  Is she getting any driving tickets or warnings?

Is she handling finances well?  If she's getting bills mixed up with other mail, not paying things on time- that's a concern.  

I also look for other safety concerns.  Is she forgetting that she's ironing and walks away from the task, leaving a hot iron unattended? 

Is her mood changing?  Many of us here have noticed an increase in irritability in our loved ones.  Also, it seems the social "brakes" aren't working as well- someone with memory loss may ramble on and on instead of having back-and-forth conversation or they might blurt out things that they never would have done in the past, like swearing in public or making loud comments about the appearance of someone in a store.

I'd keep a few notes on what you observe, then date it.  There is often a senior council on aging in many cities that can be a valuable resource.  But if their life is becoming unsafe or they are getting too frustrated with everyday tasks, then it is time to seek extra help- and at first it can be having someone take over driving them to the store or helping to write checks to pay the bills.
Bring her to do a neuropsychological assessment - this is the best way to determine objective cognitive decline (if any)! 
It's tough.  The line between MCI (Mild Cognitive Impairment) & normal aging can sometimes be too thin for even professionals to gauge correctly.  And sometimes MCI can be caused by things other than early Alzheimer's or simply never progress to it.  

My mom is 66 & has gotten more cranky & confused in the past few years...she's rapidly losing her sense of hearing, has horrible sleep apnea & pre-diabetes, all of which are risk factors for developing dementia.  She's apathetic & just sits at the computer all day w/ no social life.  Refuses to go to the doctor for checkups or even if she's deathly ill.  So I feel your pain.  

Wish I could tell you one way or the other, but it's just too difficult to be sure.  One key thing about dementia is that the sufferer often goes to great lengths to deny or downplay the fact that they're slipping while people without it will generally be concerned about small changes in their cognition.  That's because dementia sufferers genuinely don't realize there's a change in many cases.  
Thank you.  The 355 days comment by itself doesn't concern me it's the overall confusion.  My mother taught elementary education for years.  She should know that easy, and my sister think she may have googled 'how many days in a year' when corrected.  Just an example of confusion that I'm worried about.  It could be nothing, but I also don't want to turn a blind eye.
Thank you.  This is very helpful.  No issues with finances yet and no driving issues as far as a know. One accident recently but it seemed to be pretty clearly not her fault.

Rambling and some inappropriate comments, but nothing too extreme.  Social brakes have never been her strong suit.  

I'll keep an eye out for safety issues.
Any tips on how to have that conversation?  My mother is fully independent.  I don't exactly bring her places.  
I am not concerned when I see somebody above 70 that is confused, most old people I meet are confused and not as sharp as they were. ‘Confused’ is a vague term, and we need to know what it is in more detail. But as said I am no expert and you better ask people who have more experience with dementia and the sorts. 

I think there should be some cognitive tests you can find online; lately I saw one asking to draw the numbers of a clock inside a circle. My mum passed that one =) but of course you have to be at a certain stage of development of dementia to mess up that test. Do wait for more answers but if you could give more details on the ‘confusion’ you talk about I think it would help. Just from what you said it’s not enough for me to suspect something seriously wrong, just normal loss of sharpness due to age. 
It has to be initiated by a doctor’s referral so maybe suggest visiting a geriatrician? 
