In my experience, explaining over and over that a loved one has passed away is both painful and ineffective. Your goal in these situations should be to calm her down and distract her from her anxiety. Telling her her husband is dead AND that she doesn't remember it will only increase her stress! 

Was he a businessman? Tell her he's on a business trip and he'll be home in a day or two. Or he's taking a fishing trip if he used to fish. Or visiting family in another state. Even that he's running errands or working, and will be home in a few hours. Something that will sound plausible to Mom based on their history. It feels weird to lie, but it's for a good cause. Once she's calmer distract her from that train of thought by telling her something nice about your day, or some small talk. Reassure her and tell her you love her!
Another vote for "lying" - Which I put in quotes because we need a new word for what we're really doing in this situation. This is the only word we've got at the moment, but it's really not lying in the usual sense.

We feel uncomfortable lying to people, or shielding them from painful truths because of respect we have for them, because it feels wrong to treat them as if they're not "capable".

But the reality of this situation is that her brain truly ***is*** physically incapable of retaining the knowledge that he's died.  

And because her brain can't retain that knowledge, each time she hears that he's died it's for the first time ever. Like going back to square one, the grief or fear or loneliness is exactly as painful as if he'd died five minutes ago.  Each day.  Every day.  Every time she hears it.

The sum total of it all is telling the "truth" is a kind of torture.  Telling a "lie" is the only *humane* option.

So, yeah, as /u/jessiquark  said, you craft an explanation for his absence that fits  their life together.  He got delayed at the office, or there's an emergency at work, or he's working the late shift today, or out of town for business, or stopping to visit his mother on the way home from work.

And then distract, reassure, be there for her, bring up something funny or entertaining or interesting, get her thinking about something else.

Good luck!
I worked on the memory care unit of a nursing home and our policy was always “meet them where they are” so if they were asking for their husband we would play along a bit and ask them questions about their husbands. The neat thing is that common forms of dementia tend to follow the patterns of “last in; first out” so we could play songs that they knew from their teenage years that they totally forgot in their dementia but knew all the words to when they were in full dementia 
I work in an assisted living home for people with dementia. We had a couple, the woman has dementia, the man does not. He sadly departed this life at the end of February. 

She was horrified when he passed, but soon she forgot about it. Often times she would ask me where he is. I had to go through many things to figure out what to tell her to make her content. First I said he went fishing with their oldest son, but she would be angry at him for not telling her that he was going. Eventually I settled on telling her that he was doing a revival in a nearby city because they needed the best preacher there was, because this didn't make her angry with him, it made her proud of him for doing what he loves and what they think is good. 

At first telling her lies made me uncomfortable, but after a few times, I got used to it and can do it for her sake. I hope this helps. 
I'm with the other replies, that "therapeutic lying" is the way to go. There is zero benefit to making her live through finding out she is a widow over and over and over again. Figure out an answer that seems to be plausible and make it your go-to.

Try out different explanations like the other posters suggested -- business trip, fishing trip, held up at the office, etc. If the first one you try doesn't seem to resonate with her or give her comfort, try another explanation in a few minutes to see if it works better. Then distract, distract, distract.

The kindest thing you can do is just play along, and sacrifice accuracy for her comfort.
[deleted]
I've seen it referred to as "therapeutic lying."  Tell her he's out of town and will be back soon.
Check this out - ask her what she would want to tell him and have a little chat.  Such a simple and caring approach. https://www.reddit.com/r/dementia/comments/87ceu0/how_to_talk_to_someone_with_dementia/
We've just been through the exact same thing.  My sister believes in the therapeutic lying. I am, inherently blunt and truthful - and a nurse told me to 'keep her in reality' - so, 'He died 4 years ago - you know this' was said to her - with absolutely devastating results, twice, by me.

So, after lots of discussions and research and asking around - my sister and I came up with a sort of middle ground... Instead we would say, "You remember, you're a widow, like....(name all of her groovy mates who are also widows)"   THIS approach seemed to link her directly to the present where she has already come to terms with being a widow - and then she makes the connection to  'so, he's not coming."

It seemed far more gentle, productive, useful - and it satisfied both sides. It is truthful and gentle.

Full disclosure - My sister deserves the full credit for this.  


I'm certainly agree that therapeutic lying is a good thing, especially when the truth is causing pain. My one caution is to try and look for ways to tell the truth. I've seen too many caregivers start reflexively lying. For example, if you tell them over and over that their loved one is going to be home "in just a few minutes" then they may recognize that you're not telling the truth and they can definitely learn to not trust you. Definitely not helpful! 
Replying to the top post...but thanks to all.

"Lying" will be hard for me but I'll try it out. At worst it will be like Ground Hog Day and I can try a different lie the next time.

Most of the comments are spot on and similar to /u/AWildFredAppeared my mom will say "is your dad off with some floozie?".

Again, thanks to everyone who gave advice. 
damn, that's fked
> "Lying" will be hard for me but I'll try it out

Then just say where he is - Oakmount, or whatever the name of the cemetery is. If her dementia is anything like my MiLs she'll ask the question another couple of times in the same conversation and then move on to repeating something else.
