http://dailycaring.com/3-ways-of-getting-paid-as-a-family-caregiver-government-benefits-programs/
Hilarity for charity has a grant program. It may not pay you, but it may be better to have some respite for you to take care of you!  

https://hilarityforcharity.org/programs/grant-program/
you need a diagnosis. 

legally, your income has nothing to do with her. if she is below the poverty line you need to apply for as many benefits for her as possible. 

you need to get her health care proxy and power of attorney. 

you need to get in touch with a social worker and have them send a nurse out to approve her for an aide. however, make sure you have everything in order before the aide comes out! have doctors notes saying that she really shouldnt be alone, and that she would greatly benefit by having an aide/ daycare (yes adult daycare, this is something you definitely want.). make sure you have a thorough list of everything you do for her, or that she is incapable of doing by herself. 

if she is under your insurance, get her out to a neurologist as soon as possible so you can get a perscription for an mri and catscan.
My two-bits worth: The road of dementia is a terrible one and not one that you should journey down with your mother, much as you love her. 

So I'd seriously suggest, that you rather get a job outside of caring for your mom, and that you use your income to pay someone else to be her caregiver. 
Be very careful and make sure you've got your ducks 100% in a row.  The DPA up here is crooked as a broken dogs leg.  
After our grandma had been checked out at home, they said she couldn’t no longer live alone. Saw a lawyer, and made it so my husband was a caregiver for her, he gets paid on salary. You have to have two people, one takes care of her finances and one whatever else. 
Thank you! She has Medicare and has seen a neurologist at the beginning of march and she ordered an MRI and sleep study. The MRI is at the end of this month and as long as there is no tumor she will be diagnosed with Alzheimer's and starting aricept. She has 'significant memory impairment' and as of this week has lost her license. She has left pots on the stove almost burning our house down twice. I had no idea I'd need to contact a lawyer. This is so hard. 
I chose to be the caregiver and it was too much, psychologically and physically. I agree with this comment 100%. You can be there for her and not be the full-time caregiver. You deserve a life too.
