When we had to move in with my mother in law who has Lewy Bodies and Vascular Dementia, we had to go through all her stuff. Amazingly her apartment looked so good but once we started digging it felt like a never ending job.  It took us a month.  What we did was we slowly went through her stuff. I mean she had all of my husband’s baby clothes (he’s the only child).  What my husband did was he didn’t tell her anything. He would go through stuff and would tell her he was putting them in boxes and place them in storage for her so there can be space for him and I to move in and help her.  She agreed and she would forget about stuff.  We found money in bags, we found love letters, expired food (from 1993!!!!!!!!) 
My suggestion will be to slowly go through her stuff. Make sure your loved one gets their meds. Plus I highly suggest reading the 36 hour day book. It helped us a lot with dealing with her.  Plus I belong to a few support groups on facebook.  They are closed groups so if you need to vent you can do that without any judgement.  Plus they have lots of information there that you can look into.   

Good luck and remember you are not alone! 
This is totally normal.  I was told they also do something called pirating where they take something that’s left out and walk off with it and hide it. 

Then, forget about it. 

My mother has been in a home for 2 years but we still are finding things she stashed away that we assumed was lost forever. 
My father boarded some of the same items. The small plastic to go cups. Had hundreds of them. I actually cleaned some of them out thinking he wouldn’t notice and he went ballistic. 

My mother was his caretaker and she gave him one room to store stuff, but it spilled over to the basement and kitchen cabinets. 

I believe it is part of the process and very common. 

I truly have no advice on this as we just let my father pile it up. 
It’s a great book.  It helped us a lot with dealing with my mother in law.  We have been doing this for 3 very long years.  Good luck! 
I have the same problem with my partner and agree the slow de-cluttering approach is best. Having said that, I do have to be firm sometimes as she sometimes goes and takes out things I’ve thrown away...even when we’ve both agreed we are throwing said item away. What I found was that de-cluttering makes my partner feel disconnected from her surroundings and can be quite upsetting for her. To combat that, I always involve her in the cleaning process in making her understand that I do listen to her thoughts on these things. Step by step, we are gradually getting on top of things.
I just picked up the book you recommended. Thank you!
A nursing home is out of the question although I’ve tried. My grandfather has had a bad experience with nursing homes when his mother was in one. I’ve just come to terms with the fact that this is as good as it’s going to get and make the best of it.. Some days will be bad, and some will be good. 
Over the past few days I’ve become pretty stealthy bagging items up and dropping it in the trash when she’s not paying attention. But it helps to know that I’m not the only one going through this. Thank you.
