I don't have any specific thoughts on distractions, but in regards to sternly reinforcing that you're his daughter, my suggestion would be to let that go. 

He has known that you're his daughter longer, really, then you've known that he's your father. 

If the damage to his brain has progressed to the point that he's forgotten that, being stern with him about it is probably not going to do any good, and probably is going to be painful or confusing for him, as you suspect. 

Instead I would suggest firmly saying "I'm not interested in you that way", or "We don't have that kind of relationship", or " This isn't the right time for that kind of stuff, it's dinner time, eat now".

My feeling is, for most of us, the most challenging part of taking care of a dementia patient is really accepting and recognizing that they aren't going to learn anything. We are very much used to showing respect for people by expecting them to be their best selves, by expecting them to take in new information and rise to the occasion so to speak. It's a real shift of viewpoint to come to the realization that the best you can do for them now is to cease to expect them to improve.

Hope this helps, sorry you're having to go through this.
I'm sorry about this.  My dad does this type of thing occasionally too and it's just creepy, I hate it, and it makes me feel sick.   Sometimes I'll make light of it and he'll laugh.  Other times I just go and try to find something else to do elsewhere in the house.  

I have found a good distraction lately with podcasts.  My dad LOVES to listen to The Moth.  I will just take my iPhone and plop it on his chest with the volume turned up (he sort of lives in his recliner)  It's just stories that random people tell at these Moth get-togethers.  They put their name in a hat and whoever's name is pulled gets to tell their story about whatever the theme happens to be that particular night.  They are typically about 10 minutes long and he'll sit there for hours and listen and LOVES THEM.  Might be worth a try.  

I know sometimes they get in a cycle where they can't let something go and that can be more difficult.  Not sure of your situation, but if my dad is just being intolerable or just pushing those particular buttons that he knows I am sensitive about, I gather my things and just leave.  Sometimes you've got to just remove yourself if you can.  

Sorry you are going through this.  I know it can be awful.  Just try and remember that if he was in his right mind, he wouldn't be behaving like this.  Hang in there & hugs from one daughter to another.
Fortunately, he knows I'm his daughter still. No matter what I say to him at the time makes any difference as he simply repeats the words I've used. 

Thank you for your thoughts x
Thanks for the support. Hugs from me to you too 😘

My Dad apologises to me after each time (3 so far) a day or so afterwards. So, for now he has the insight that he's behaved in this way at least. I  know he loves me very much, some thought processes in his brain just get mixed up. 

My Dad has FTD and is still active as only 65 and he has his own interests still.

After thinking about it all day, I think sikoly removing myself is the best course if action after all. 

Thank you and hugs x
