I am so so sorry your family is being like this.  You deserve a better support unit.  
Have you tried going the Medicaid route to try to get her into assisted living?  Then you could visit as much as you want to feel comfortable - but then leave to take care of yourself.  I was very much against this for my father - but now realize he is so much better cared for then when he was with my mom who couldn't properly meet his needs.  

Whatever ends up happening - be kind to yourself.  There is little appreciation and support for a caregiver and lots of second guessing and stress.  
Yes, I have done this. I had to force my siblings to help. 
OP I'm really sorry for the position youre in. I was in a similar situation until I lost my grandmother. None of my dad's family pitched in to help. 
Just hang in there!!! I wish you all the luck. 
Many care homes, at least here in the UK, offer a 2 week respite service for family carers. Maybe you and your family may be able to consider this to give you a break.  
My stepdad has Lewy Body dementia & multiple serious medical conditions.  As much as I'd like to drop him off to one of his children, my concern is unfamiliar surroundings & routine negatively affecting his mental ability. If his mind comes back at all, it takes a long time to get anywhere near previous level. It happens often during inpatient hospital visits (delerium). He never seems to get back to his previous ability. 

I need someone to stay at the house. Only another caregiver can understand the demands & stress of your situation. If possible, I could sleep or lay in bed 24 hours a day. I don't recognize myself anymore. It's been 3 years with very minimal days off. God bless, and keep us updated.

[deleted]
[deleted]
Oh yea.  My mom's partner has it and its been, stressful.  I couldn't imagine the sadness and stress of being the number one caretaker.
Some places will take a resident if they are “Medicaid Pending,” and you can demonstrate that she has no assets over the limit. It can help to enlist the facility where you would like to get care for her. Have you been to some facilites and spoken with their in-house social workers? If not, it would be good to do so, because they can have very long waiting lists for Medicaid beds.

Also, a little trick you can do to get things moving, is to call an ambulance the next time your mom has some kind of issue, and have them transport her to the E.R. Then, refuse to take her home. Tell them you cannot continue to provide care for her at home, and they need to find a placement for her NOW. You may have to take placement somewhere that is not your first choice, but you can work on getting her transferred when space opens up somewhere else.

Most importantly, NEVER sign anything stating that you assume any financial responsibility for any charges your mother incurs. If you are POA, make sure you always sign “*your name*, POA for *your mother’s name*, but do not accept terms that shift financial responsibility over to you. Have a lawyer look over anything before you sign. 
Please call adult protective services. They are more than for abuse cases. They have all resources you can take advantage of and will help you to get them.
[deleted]
that's so good!  You have a thing to look forward too.  That's what helped me work my way out of being debilitating depressed, just focus on one good thing.  I showered, I painted my nails, I took a longer walk than normal.  Just something that CAN be achieved vs. something way out there that's just not feasible.
[deleted]
My moms partner does the same thing.  She finally had to get a job outside the house, to give herself space.  For now, he can take care of himself, but idk.  Early onset alzheimer's can either progress fast or slow. Just depends.
AND YAY! A SHOWER! Its a thing you did in the here and now.  Now does suck and its going to stay sucky until you can find your balance.  Whatever the hell that means.  For me, it was meds. I got on lexapro and couldn't be happier. I still have shitty days and high anxiety, but its manageable now.
I'm sure you love your mom and i know she loves you, she sees what you do for her, even if she can't vocalize it well.  Just make sure to take time for you!
