Has he been diagnosed? If this is the only sign other than what seems to just be aging, then it could truly be something else.
But if he's been diagnosed, just know that these things aren't that linear and every patient is different.
I'm sorry that happened.  I am trying to brace myself for when that happens to me. Intellectually you know it's the disease, but that doesn't mean it won't shatter your world.
Need to tell them ASAP, better before it’s to late.
He hasn't been diagnosed, but I'm going to make sure my mom gets that set up asap. We live on different coasts and they would like to move to where I live, but this really throws a wrench into things. I really hope it's not serious, because I want to make their last years as good as I possibly can.
Spoke with my mom about it a few times and she’s going to have him checked out by his doctor as soon as they get home next week.
I would say dr. visit, as soon as possible.

My mom had alzheimer's.  By the time she began to not recognize relatives, she'd already been *far* from "super smart, sharp" for more than a year.

As in, asking the same question every couple of minutes for 20 minutes straight.  Paying bills was purely an exercise in examining each bill from the stack in great detail, then setting aside to be dealt with later because of being too complex (but they were all too complex).  Things that didn't belong there turned up in the freezer, fridge, cupboards.  She held up the key to her house, same key for 45 years at that point, and asked "What's this?!".

There were signs and symptoms abounding for a long, long time prior, very unlike what happened with your father.

We all know that alzheimer's is not treatable, curable in any conventional sense (note on that below), but this doesn't sound like alzheimer's to me, and could possibly be something that *is* treatable, therefore the sooner, the better...

Note:  There's something called the MEND Protocol, associated with Dr. Dale Bredesen, that seems to hold out a great deal of hope in regards to alzheimer's, but for most it involves pretty radical lifestyle changes in the areas of diet and physical activity.
