Check with your local Alzheimer’s association. They’ve got all kinds of support groups almost every night of the week. It’s the worst watching someone you love (or really anyone) with this disease. I’m an activity director at a memory care facility and it’s hard for me to see the residents decline. 
I feel ya...and know the verbal abuse all too well..."i hope you fing die ! you can go DIRECTLY to hell" is my moms personal fav for my sister and I. I laugh at that one...no layover or stops, direct one way to hell lol
I can only deal with her high. Weed is really the only thing that allows me to be in presence and not take personal the awful awful things she has said to myself and sister despite sacrificing 3 years of our life to help her...she has frontal lobe dementia so not quite the same but the anger and swearing is all too familiar. Try and laugh it off - dont know any support groups but I'll smoke a doob with your dad any time and chat if he's in Canada! 
Good luck. Stay strong. You did the right thing (4months post move...). This too shall pass friend...
I am sorry to hear about your mom. My dad also has early onset Alz, diagnosed 6 years ago. Lately, he became aggressive and we also decided to move him into a nursing home. I am glad you could separate the "old" mum from the "new" one. I know it's hard... I don't know any support groups.... 
My MiL was diagnosed last year, at the "ripe old age" of 47.  
It's been the worst thing watching her go from a loving, caring person who'd always cook for everyone that comes around, and the person my wife trusted the most, to someone who only occasionally doesn't think my wife's her sister (who we've learned was always mean to her as a kid), who has lost *all* initiative and has no idea of how time works.

Actually, no. I lie. That's not been the worst.  
The absolute worst has been watching my wife come home from a few days of taking care of her while her dad's off on a work trip somewhere. Watching the progression of her realization of "I won't have my mother anymore" has been tearing me to pieces.


All in all, I just feel so f... helpless about all this.
It's amazing. Will pm you the info when I get the address and stuff off dad :)
Thanks so much 
Thanks mate. Unfortunately we live in Brisbane Australia or I would totally take ya up on that offer :) Thanks for the support
Thanks for your reply :)

Our first realization of something being wrong was watching her from the car, getting lost in an empty parking lot. No spatial awarness, she had no idea where to go and no clue which car was theirs (despite it being the same car for the past 10 years).
We were sitting in the car with my wife while she went shopping with her husband, they got seperated in the shop so she wandered outside and despite us having a clear line of sight on a 200-spot parking lot with barely 10 cars on it, couldn't figure out which car should she go to.
Hey, I live in Brisbane as well.. My dad has Alzheimer's and he and mum live in NSW, we are in the slow process of getting them up here. Would you be able to recommend the place that your mum lives in? Maybe in private message? :) Sorry I don't have anything helpful to add to the conversation, other than I am going to get involved in some of the support groups when they move up here as well :)
