I'm so sorry to hear your grandmother's diagnosis. My father was diagnosed with early onset about four years ago, and yes it was super shitty to say the least. It was incredibly hard for my family and I to adjust, but it's ok to feel upset and scared and sad and all the other millions of feelings you're feeling right now. That's part of the process. I've learned a lot since my dad's diagnosis, so here are a few things I'd recommend.

1. Find a community that you can go to for support. Caring for someone with ALZ can be incredibly taxing, and you don't have to go it alone. Get to know your local chapter of the Alzheimer's Assn, your local senior center, or walking groups. Look for creative aging programs, make friends, learn from others--not only will keep your grandmother engaged, but you'll meet people who you can talk to and share your feelings with, and that goes a really long way.

2. Living with ALZ is hard, but creating a steady routine for your grandma can help relieve some the stress and anxiety she might feel at certain moments throughout the day. Writing down lists and labels and instructions really helped my dad stay oriented at first. They won't work forever but every little bit counts, right?

3. Be patient. Go with the flow. Remember that everyday will be a new normal, and that's ok. Your grandmother will forget things, and that's ok. She'll ask strange questions and repeat herself and maybe act differently than you're used to, and those are all ok. It's natural to get frustrated in certain situations, but letting go and just "stepping into their world" can really help relieve some of the pressure. There's a great story on This American Life called "Rainy days and Mundys" all about this. Really helped me a lot and worth a listen.

4. Last but not least, look for the beautiful moments, you may be surprised how many you find. ALZ forces you to live in the present, to notice what's around you and to be engaged. Underneath the pain is a lot of beauty. It might now always feel like it, but trust me, it's there, and it's profound.

I'd offer more but im on mobile and my battery is running out (apoplogies in advance for any typos) 

I wish you and your family strength as you work through this. It's hard. Really really hard, but remember there a lot of people and resources out there that can help.
When my mother was first going downhill, I went through a period of grief. In this journey, that was the time period That was hardest. The thought of losing my best friend was difficult to say the least. Then I realized that though the person I loved was gone, the person she became was also someone I loved. And she was also somebody that was just as wonderful. I hope you also have an epiphany that will ease your transition into loving someone with Alzheimer's. Good luck, you do have a lot of good times still to come.
Thankyou, I’m sorry to hear about your father.
That was all really sound advice, especially #1 & #4. I can imagine this is going to be an incredibly isolating journey so I’m glad I don’t have to do this alone. I’m still processing what is happening and am finding it all very hard to actually picture what the future will be like... I’m just trying to stay strong for her sake and spend all the time with her while I still can.
