Can you set her up one with extreme parental controls?
You have some choices

1. Remove computer from the home, or lock it in a room. 

2. Put a password on computer

3. Block Facebook from the computer

4. Make her a new account, but this time install FB Purity. It lets you block key words. So block pages & people that make her upset. At the same time block the words that make her upset. 

Out of curiosity what about Facebook triggers her?
Unfortunately there’s not much you could do, you could talk to your relatives who are helping her with it or you could take away her access to the internet. It’s hard tho since she’s an adult and still lucid enough to use it so people probably want to help her...
You may be able to block Facebook from the router or with admin access on the computer she uses. Someone who works in IT would know. 
I’m not sure how to do that. Or how it would diminish her triggers. 
She thinks people are hacking her account and trying to kill her. 
We’ve talked to them several times and unfortunately, they are only helping her get back on it for their own relief. It’s just such a nightmare. 
Ah! I can probably do this myself. Thanks!! 
I don’t either. :( I’m sorry
Block facebook in your router. and give your uncles a kick in the ass.  and then teach them to redirect her attention to something else. 
Yah, that is a block website.

[Wiki How](https://www.wikihow.com/Block-a-Website-on-Your-Computer) has a page on blocking websites. 

The easiest looks to be the Chrome extension [Block Site](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/block-site-website-blocke/eiimnmioipafcokbfikbljfdeojpcgbh?hl=en)


This was my plan. Someone here mentioned it. I talked to my mom about it and she basically told me not to do it because then my grandpa and uncle won’t be able to access Facebook either. I don’t care one way or another. They aren’t contributing to anything here in a positive way. They are acting like children and deserve to be treated as such. But I also understand that this is far more emotional for my mother than it is for me. 
do they all share the same computer? 
if not you can block just her mac address...
alternatively...do they have different user accounts? where you could set it up through parental controls that her account can’t access fb? 
