I look at it this way - when they talk like that they are exercising the only power they have anymore... It's tempting to respond in kind, but that will feed the situation.  You might find it easier to turn it around and ask her for more detailed info to followup on her criticism or ask her for advice.  Asking for advice gives them a little more satisfying validation.  Along with this it seems like your dad needs some respite - any chance he can get away for a day or weekend? 
I learned to deflect - try to talk about things you both enjoyed. In my case it was cats. I'd talk about our pets and she'd engage - after all, she doesn't remember anything for more than five minutes.

It didn't stop the nastiness but it did reduce it.
My dad has advanced dementia and yes, he definitely can be quite nasty. He can be petulant like a child and unappreciative, critical and demanding. It especially hurts that although I have siblings, I bear the brunt of it. 

I try to remember this is not my father's true self. I just hope when he is gone I will forget the ugliness and remember the good man he once was.
I tried to give him “outs” but he’s terrified to leave her side. Flat out refused to take the day for himself when I would have been fine with my mom and son (and my husband is also there to pick up slack - wherever he is needed)


I don’t respond at all when I’m being dumped on, I don’t really know what to say. It’s affecting my confidence a bit. I don’t feel that I can have any real feelings about any of this - I’m expected to be the glue that holds everyone together.
Try to get a carer in from an agency for a few hours once or twice a week, hoping for someone who is experienced with dementia.  Watch and see how they handle things, what they say. Seeing how an 'outsider' interacts can be very helpful and can show you different ways to communicate and handle things. For some reason it can be very hard to ask questions back at first - it is like challenging an authority figure, but try it anyway. 

> Try to get a carer in from an agency for a few hours once or twice a week

This. I have a non-professional carer come to the house for 4 hours a day, 5 days a week. She is kind, but assertive, and my wife complies with whatever the carer asks of her. Things that I ask of my wife (let's go pee) which ordinarily are met with hostility or anger, my wife complies with, without the anger. Our carer is a godsend.
If I can get him on his own, I will gently suggest that.
I can see this in our future, if they can just get over their "shame" of dementia.
If my wife is any indication, it will happen -- the shame will go away. 

I still hide the fact that I'm paying my carer, so that my wife can remain under the illusion that this her daily friend coming for a visit.
