Going through my 4th family member with this disease and it varies. In my early teens I thought my grandmother was teasing me. A few years ago when I father introduced himself to me and asked me my name it took everything to prevent myself from crying. Not because I was forgotten but because he had entered this stage of the disease and it doesn't get better. There will be moments where they will suddenly remember you or they will see you as you were when you were just a child but these memories start to fade like a radio signal. 

One thing I can recommend is start a photo book for her (I had a few printed since wire-bound books were not recommended). With family members and their names. If she enjoys music then get the MP3s and a player with built-in speakers.
Going through this as the primary care giver for my grandmother. It’s a weird feeling. But as the other commenter mentioned, find photos of you two together, maybe with other close family members too, save them on your phone where you can pulll them up quick, or old actual photos and put them somewhere high where you can grab them and your grandma won’t find and move them. It’s a rough battle ahead. Make sure to let the rest of the family know it’s a good time to come visit as she’s entering the later stages now. Best of luck, message me whenever if you ever need to talk. 
We’ve been going through the same thing with my grandpa. He doesn’t remember us but seem to recognize us as his “friends”. It’s very sad all around, especially for my grandma. I would say what helps is we try to see him as a different person. It’s only the remnants of his brain left. We try to make humor of it when we can and that seems to help my mom and my aunt (his daughters). We also made a picture book too, of different objects that are labeled, and a page with his name, birthday, and all his relatives. He looks at it often and he loved it. It’s called a memory book, I believe.
I’m sorry you’ve gone through so much of this. I enjoy the suggestion and I will definitely do that, she remembered my younger brother and asked questions about him to my mother, so maybe a little book would help her. Thank you so much for sharing your story with me.
I’ll definitely try to make her a memory book, I bet she would love that. Especially if I phrase it as giving her a scrapbook, as sometimes she’s more aware than others. I’m sorry you are also going through this, but I really appreciate the input. Thank you for sharing your story.
Thanks.  Also one more thing and this has no medical backing or studies behind it. In fact, I may be wrong but I never correct someone with Alz when they mis-state something. I've seen some family members treat it as comical and the person usually shuts down out of confusion and embarrassment. I go along with what they state and try to get them to adjust. Once my father was insisting he needed to leave for work cause he was going to be late. He was retired by then and it was 9pm. He should be heading to bed soon. I quickly made up a lie and told him that he took the day off to help my older sister with a household repair. Told him I was waiting around so I can get a ride. We talked for a bit about going to Home Depot (his Toys R Us) and getting some supplies he needed. Intentionally started an argument over Lowes vs Home Depot and then sports. I put on the 10pm news, got him to fall asleep. Once the nurse and I got him into bed peacefully, I got the all clear and she could take over from there. Also if your grandmother is a wanderer the best investment is a door chime like they have at stores. You have the caretaker activate it at night. It will usually scared them into not leaving or at the very least alert someone else that they have attempted to leave.
It may be that she remembers you as a much younger child. So this adult in front of her is major cognitive dissonance. I don’t think our relative recognizes her older grandkids because in her mind, they are still babies/toddlers. She knows she has grandkids, but they aren’t the big people in front of her.

Also seconding not contradicting her. I find she is much calmer if you just go along with her reality at the moment, within reason, and try to redirect or deflect if necessary. The topic will be forgotten soon.

Best of luck on this journey. It is an extended grieving process, and no one gets to dictate how you process things. Indifference is still a reaction and don’t feel bad for your current feelings, they may evolve over time.
I didn’t really correct her, I just told her it was nice to see her again. I’ll talk to my family about the door chime. So far she still lives at home because she’s very adamant that she can handle it, but I’m feeling like that will be changing quickly with her memory deteriorating as it seems to be. Thank you for all the advice, I do appreciate it a lot.
Thank you, after reading what you said I wonder if she would recognize me as a younger version of me. I’m in college and not always around and so the last time I saw her she was having an easier time remembering things. 

I’ll remember not to contradict her, and I appreciate all the kind words. It helps a lot to hear from others who have been in the same situation as someone navigating this for the first time.
