My wife went through a period of paranoia to the point that her sister wouldn't talk to her for a year. Unfortunately I can only commiserate with you about this. After a few months, my wife forgot about the whole thing and started asking me why her sister doesn't call anymore.

This was one of those instances where we just had to wait things out for my wife's disease to get worse before the situation got better. It's a terrible thing to say, and to contemplate, but that's what our reality looks like now, unfortunately.
Firstly, I want to say sorry for what you're going through. Secondly, reading about your situation absolutely blew me away because it sounds so much like my situation and I thought these exact things weren't happening to anyone else..my mom also sometimes thinks that her husband (my dad) is having an affair with me (their daughter!). The first time she started accusing us of it I just had no idea what to say or do..it was horrible. She also thinks there are two versions of my dad and refers to him in the plural (what are 'they' doing? Etc.) I just thought that these exact things were specific to our situation so that's really eye-opening. I called the Alzheimers Society helpline for advice, they said that 1) it will eventually pass 2) distraction is the only thing you can do 3) it could be a symptom of some other pain, discomfort or annoyance that she can't express so try to figure out what could be causing that. I've tried different distraction techniques but it's just a case of trial and error. "do you want a cup of tea?" "can you show me where the tea is and we'll make some tea?", or try to change the subject if possible even though its very forced.. Just say "look, did you hear about this thing that happened in the news lately?" or, "did you hear what (someone she cares about)is upto?". Perhaps there could be an object that might distract her attention, "have you seen this by the way?". I know this all sounds really random but you've just got to try different distraction techniques. Also trying to ask if she's okay hungry, hot, cold, something hurts, is something out of place.. You'll know the kind of things that bug your mom, so you might have an idea of something which is behind all of this. Please feel free to message me if you want to talk more! I cannot empathise enough with your situation! I'm living it too. It's just a case of learning tips and tricks I think though, I have recently found some things that seem to help. Also, just try to remember, it's not personal, your mom would be so upset if she knew what she was saying to you, this is just a manifestation of the illness, it's just a very horrible symptom and she can't help it. I know that's impossible to remember in those tough moments, but I do try to remind myself of that when I can. 
My mom used to have delusions that my dad (a doctor) was getting arrested for HIPAA violations and instead of going quietly, he killed himself. The method of his suicide would change from story to story, and sometimes she’d add in that one of her caretakers was having an affair with him. The only thing that worked to calm her down was to lean into the delusion. I found this out when I lost it after the ninth or tenth telling in a day, and started crying myself. That immediately calmed her down and we comforted each other. 

It was an indicator for us that we needed to change up her medications. That helped, and she stopped having hallucinations like that. I’m not sure how you can lean into that particular delusion without making her more upset though.
My mothers paranoia is getting worse too. Ber mood changed from good to worse when my father snd I were talking. Suddenly she warned me that she was  going to hit me in a menacing tone, then  1/2 second later slapped me. I was shocked...she thought we were talking about her.
My theory is that they have a hard time trusting their senses and rather than accept the problem is in their minds it is because of other people.  If you ever saw the childrens' show "Mr Rogers Neighborhood" on PBS TV you might remember the way he would explain things in a matter of fact way with a smile and would talk about what he was going to do and then what he was doing.  Calm, with a smile. if you just go about your business expecting her to understand what you're doing that could inadvertently cause her to think you're trying to do something she doesn't want... So say "I've brought some towels for the bathroom, I'll just put them here for you" and maybe ask a question to try to engage her in the process like does she need any tissues or soap - and offer to check for her...  It's a lot more talking about this sort of thing than I'm used to but it does keep things a bit calmer.
Try to find something she still really enjoys, and be around her when she seems to be happy. If she enjoys music still, try and play that for her. That helps soothe my dad when he's anxious.
Unfortunately until there is a cure, all we can do is commiserate and sympathize with each other. I'm sorry about your wife. Does she still get paranoid at times or did it go away as the disease progressed?
It's so nice to hear this happens to other people! I don't know what I thought because when we talk to the doctors they don't mention anything to help or techniques to cope. Dad is her main caretaker, and I want to help him but she gets jealous and paranoid then I get frustrated and annoyed then it all goes to Hell. 
Thank you so much! 

Wow I had totally blocked/forgotten about my wife's brief period of physical aggression. It lasted only a month or so, but yeah, she'd get angry and aggressive out of nowhere and attack me. As I look back on it now, it seems somehow like a stage of grief, somehow.

Nowadays, she occasionally gets angry, but it feels completely different -- more like the kind of tantrum a toddler has.
She hasn't hit anyone yet... I've been mostly trying to stay away so I don't upset her and make matters worse
It went away as the disease progressed. A bittersweet turn of events -- it made it easier to deal with her, but there was less of *her* for me to interact with.
Have you tried weed? I mean first for your mom, but if that doesn't help, then for you and your dad?
I am so sorry and sad.
Honestly I've though about it. Unfortunately the closest state I can buy it is Colorado. The problem is she's so paranoid about everything she might report me for trying to kill her 😢
