You should not be alone in this....even if family won't help, you need to reach out for help.  
For starters:
The Alzheimer's Association 24/7 Helpline provides reliable information and support to all those who need assistance. Call us toll-free anytime day or night at 1.800.272.3900.

Our 24/7 Helpline serves people with memory loss, caregivers, health care professionals and the public.

Our highly trained and knowledgeable staff can help you with:

Understanding memory loss, dementia and Alzheimer's
Medications and other treatment options
General information about aging and brain health
Skills to provide quality care and to find the best care from professionals
Legal, financial and living-arrangement decisions
Our 24/7 Helpline also features:
Confidential care consultation provided by master's level clinicians who can help with decision-making support, crisis assistance and education on issues families face every day
Help in a caller's preferred language using our translation service that features more than 200 languages and dialects
Referrals to local community programs, services and ongoing support
When my mother repeats things she's told me 5 minutes ago, I just go with it. It does get tiring, and thankfully I don't live with her, but I hope you can find a mechanism to cope.

For her pills, do you have a pill box for her where she can take out the ones for the day? I believe they even have locked ones.

Good for you for taking care of her though. When my grandmother was alive, she had dementia, and I tried as much as I could to help, but she had in\-home care too.

With my mom, I fear that she'll have to go to a home soon.
Can totally relate except I don't live with my relative. I could not! No way! It would drive me nuts. I'm in a similar situation in that other family members don't give a toss and I'm doing it largely by myself. Though, I'm in Europe so getting him care isn't going to cost me my house and my childrens' future (not that I have children). 

I can give you one tip about meds which will make your life better: buy a safe! I got a fair sized metal safe with electronic keypad for £40. I keep the meds inside. My relative wouldn't know how to remember the key combination if he tried, so I don't have to change it or be sneaky about him seeing me put the numbers in. 

I actually bought it for his last house where the rent money was placed in a book in his room to be collected by the landlord every week. Basically, the rent money kept going missing. Not all of it but some, often. "[He] didn't take it", of course. "Sure you didn't! I'm just going to go ahead and lock the money away in here anyway and make sure only me and the landlord know how to get in to it". 

When it comes to reminding them what they forgot - don't bother. Imagine someone comes up to you and says "Hey, you left your hat at my place" and you've never seen this person and never been to their place in your life and you don't own a hat. I reckon that's what it's like with dementia. So, if that person keeps on at you telling you your memory's bad you're just going to get angry and resentful. They're telling you something you "know" to be false. The alternative for them is that they'd have to accept that reality is constantly shifting on them and they're dependent on others to keep them orientated and up to date. That is a terrifying proposition for anyone to accept. 

I wouldn't feel too guilty about moving out. It doesn't seem fair that her care is falling on you. Maybe this is cold, but, it's her illness - not yours. It's a tragedy but it doesn't need to become two tragedies - which is what it'll be if you let it grind you down and wreck your life. A lot of people get suckered in to being unpaid carers in these situations because other family don't want to do their fair share. 
My mom was that way. Yelled at my dad when she misplaced things, accused him of lying, etc.
Things came to a head eventually. They were renting a house in central Oregon and her car was usually parked under a tree. Birds would sit in the tree and crap on her car. She got upset about it one day (when my dad refused to cut the tree down), grabbed the dog, and took off in the car to drive “home.”

24 hours later, we get a call from a fire department in a little town in the forested area of northeast California. Her car had ended up in a ditch and she got out with the dog and was walking around looking for my dad and I in the snow (it was August and no snow). If the fire department had not bumped their training day up, it is very likely she would gave wandered off away from the forest, into the high desert area (I think that’s what it was; no trees or anything) and we would likely have never found her.

After that we tried everything to get her to a doctor. We were finally able to once my dad agreed to not be honest and tell her, but rather lie and say we were going to lunch and then to his appointment.

It’s been a rough road. Her new med has stopped her from hitting, scratching, and throwing things at him though (literally a miracle drug). 

After reading multiple books on the subject and the articles on Alz.org, the best thing to do is don’t fight her on things unless it is an immediate danger, lie to her if necessary, and play into her delusions if it keeps her safe and happy. No one gets out of the disease alive, so don’t add stress to the situation.

Good luck! 🍀 
