It will only get worse, your best bet is to step aside. Just friendly visits, her son will be in charge of her health and caregiver status assuming she has no husband. It’s a long hard road ahead, but I’m not sure your in the position to help judging by what you’ve said. I’m sorry. 

And feel free to downvote me and educate me on the subject if I’m missing any big ways of helping here. 
What country are you in?

Here in Queensland, Australia, if you can get someone seen in emergency, they cannot by law release them until they are fully assessed & given a proper care plan.

I had to take my uncle in for his own safety. It was one of the hardest things I've had to do.

It's a tough road, but it is in their best interests.

Check in your country/state for similar avenues, especially if financial abuse is a factor.
He won’t be in charge of her care though. He doesn’t care to or “feel comfortable “ with any of it. 

She lets him use her card for things and manage her finances but he doesn’t help he just buys whatever he wants and lets the bills go unpaid. Lets her run out of money for gas and food, etc
I’m in the States. 
To my knowledge unless she’s actively threatening to hurt herself or others she can’t be forced into any kind of treatment- even emergency evaluation.

And while it’s clear to anyone who lives with her that she has dementia and is declining, she will not see anyone to get it confirmed and diagnosed so there’s not that to fall back on or help. 

I will try to speak to someone from our department of aging and see if there’s any advice they can offer, though.

I’m sorry you can relate. :(
If you think her son and grandson in law are abusing her financially and if she is unable to take care of her own medical needs, you may try calling to Adult Protective Services. 

If you think her driving is a danger to herself or others, I believe you can call your local Department of Motor Vehicles (or whatever local government agency licenses drivers) and talk to them about it. They may ask her to come in to take a written, road, or vision test. Or maybe your non-emergency police line.

If she has violent, uncontrolled  outbursts, you can either take her to the ER and ask for a psyche evaluation or call 911 and ask them to take her in for a psyche eval.
This may be the most effective way for OP to help. I suggest making the calls anonymous to avoid family arguments.
Thank you for the practical advice and suggestions. I will do all that and hopefully they can provide some help for her and some insight into the situation.
You're welcome. As another user said, make the calls anonymously if at all possible.
Definitely intend to. :(
