She needs to find an Alzheimer's support group. Quickly. Try your local hospital, they should be able to point you in the right direction. Caregiver burnout is a very real thing, and dealing with  dementia so closely will change her. The support group will help her deal with it.
It may help to see what you can find in terms of support from the government. Many places have systems in place to offer services like cleaning and nursing to families dealing with dementia. 

For example, [here's the website for Tennessee's caregiver support program](https://www.tn.gov/aging/our-programs/caregiving.html)
I would also advise support groups. Look at [Alzheimer's Association's](https://www.alz.org/apps/we_can_help/support_groups.asp) wesbite, they have a huge directory. 
You are such a loving daughter or son to have such care and concern for you family.  It sounds like you all have a lot to deal with and I am sorry you are going through this.  I am much older and my mother is also very mean spirited.  I think that adds another level of difficulty in caregiving. It is never easy, but doing it for someone who loves and appreciates you must be easier than when the person you are helping is critical and mean.  And your mom probably tries not to put a lot of this on your shoulders, because we parents usually try not to burden our kids with an adult level of problems. But I know I slip sometimes and vent to my kids, and then I feel bad because I make them feel bad. 

I think what helps me is just knowing my family understands my stress. Because I worry that I am not doing enough for them because of dealing with the tough eldercare situation. So what would mean a lot to me is a hug, or being told they love me or just a little note that says “I am thinking of you and wishing you the best possible day” or some little thing like that.  And, maybe be willing to chat about how your day/life is going.  Moms want to be involved in their kids lives and I worried when my kids were younger that all my energy was going toward my mother’s health problems and that they held back from talking to me because of that.  And of course, every household assigns chores differently, but I always appreciated when my kids pitched in on their own without being asked. 

Not knowing the condition that your grandmother is in makes it hard to make suggestions. Are there little things you could do together, like coloring or a puzzle just to occupy some time -or have those become too difficult or frustrating for her?  When my father in law’s dementia was getting bad, I spent a lot of time going through old photo albums with him. He remembered the older pictures even when he couldn’t recognize anyone in the newer ones.  He seemed to like to talk about them. 

Anyway, thank you again for wanted to help and for being so caring. I hope your family stays strong and supportive as you go through this difficult time.  Sending you an internet hug if you want it!
