It's pretty common for people to lose interest in activities. My mother couldn't focus on anything and reading is out of the question. So is cooking and all. 

I find blasting good loud music (especially music that brings them back to their youth) does wonders and dancing. My father has a monster sound system at home and I blast it like it's a freakin' concert and we totally rock out and dance. I'm talking we totally jam out. It gets her heart rate up, keeps her physical, and I get to act like an idiot but nobody knows! 
I agree. Music brightens my dad up on the daily. Watch the documentary called "Alive Inside", it's unbelievably informative and uplifting.
Best of luck. She's fortunate to have raised a child who cares enough to try different things.
My mom has Frontotemporal Dementia and is 56. She really enjoys adult colouring books and puzzles. If your able to or your mom has friends then maybe taking her out for a coffee a couple times a week would be good! My mom really enjoys getting out of the house and being social which is nice :)

Also if you think your mom would be up to it you could find a place for her to volunteer. My moms best friend runs a non-profit thrift store and my mom volunteers there once a week and makes her feel like she’s contributing to society. Just make sure you find somewhere that is accommodating and understanding of mental disabilities :)
Get her Wendy Mitchell’s book Somebody I Used to Know. Look up your local Alzheimers Association, they often have various groups and activities.  Google Memory Cafe.  See if Dementia Friends has started in your community and get your mom involved. Podcasts about medical things she could listen or follow along - not important to remember the info just invigorating her mind as she listens. Your mom is still capable of a whole lot. Get her to start her own support group to talk to people.  Think about her previous likes and dislikes.  Any hobby with ”muscle memory” people with dementia will remember - knitting, piano, gardening. 
There's a series of books written specifically for people with dementia that are easy to read but have adult themes. 
Do you know someone with kids? Could she watch the kids in the home while the mom or dad is home did they can get stuff done but still be available?
My father's Alzheimer's is very advanced, so it might be different from your situation; but what we've done is books. Lots of reading, weekly trips to the library, and also asking him about the stories. It keeps his mind active and sharpens what memory he has left. We also look at old photo albums, his family and my mother's. We ask him who this person is, what is that, etc.. I do know that once my father can no longer read we are past the point of no return, so engaging him in books is like a last resort.
My Nana really likes to look through photos. If you have old photo albums or boxes of photos let her look through those, maybe sort them by whose in them if she is able to.
My mom was recently diagnosed with Alzheimer’s.  She’s also 54 and struggling to fill her days. We hired a gal to come over for half the day and get her out of the house. That’s helped a lot. It’s tough. There’s not a lot she can do without assistance. 
Tablets/iPads were great for my mom early on. I put it in a children’s safe mode. Some apps were a total miss but a few were really a hit. Angry Birds was pretty straightforward and she was ok playing it for a bit (things like solitaire were too much). My mom absolutely loved Instagram. I set up an account for her, then followed friends and family and a bunch of accounts I knew would interest her. She had a short attention span but the constant scroll gave her a constant stream of new things.  

We also started birdwatching together. I put up a feeder right outside the window and it kept her interest and seemed to relax her. She could watch them longer than anything on tv.  It also was nice because it gave her a sense of purpose. We fill the birdbath each day (so our birds have enough to drink), and we put out food everyday (so they will not be hungry) etc.  She can’t cook but she can mix the ingredients I put in a bowl for suet to put out. It makes her feel good that they are eating something she made. Not saying birding is for everyone, maybe a pet (that you could help look after too)? But a thing to give her a sense of purpose helps. 
What’s it called?
Marlena books: https://marlenabooks.com/
