[removed]
Is your mom good with technology? My mother had to get an upgraded cable system and cried because it was "too complicated" for her. We ended up getting the old one back for her. BUT I think if you don't already, maybe try getting her a smart home device. My mom LOVES hers. She has a Google home and she can ask it questions, turns on the lights (we have a smart plug adapter), set alarms, appointments, etc. I would definitely think about getting her one (and cheaper than buying a new TV)!

Edit: oh, you can also get apps. We have one that when she yells for help it sends a text to my phone to notify me.
I must say the Nest camera system is fantastic (should be seeing it's a Google product!).
Obviously you'd need a strong, consistent broadband to start with. We now have 4 cameras, living room, kitchen, entrance hall and her bedroom. Only my sisters are privy to the bedroom camera, I can see all the others. The latest camera was only installed recently as mum took a fall in her bedroom and it was only by chance one of my sisters was passing and dropped in. Fortunately mum was fine. She has worn a linkline pendant which is pressed in case of emergencies but nowadays she only perceives it as a thing she wears and didn't think/remember to press it for assistance.
All the cameras have a 10 days video recording facility (paid for by subscription) although you don't have to have it. All have a microphone which you can talk through via the app on a phone/tablet.
You can set up specific zones to be covered and set for notifications of people, movement and/or sounds.
I installed 2 Nest CO/smoke alarms which can be tested via the app and will notify us if there is an issue. They each have a night light which can be set to turn on if someone passes in the dark.
They are ideal if anyone has a big property because if one alarm is triggered it will 'speak' to all the other alarms in the house stating which alarm was first triggered and where!
If I manage to work out a system regarding the tv I'll post it ☺
Thanks for your reply and hope your mum's ok.
Unfortunately Mum was never good with tech so, at this stage, nigh on impossible to introduce anything new. Like your mum, we tried a more modern wire-free, digital phone some time back but had to quickly revert to her original. It does have 3 quick dial buttons for those of us nearest to her which she can use.
I love the idea of the system you have set up but Mum's memory couldn't retain the instructions for anything even slightly complicated.
When we phone her to remind her to get her tea/supper from her fridge, if she doesn't do it within 30 seconds the memory is gone. She lives very much in the moment these days. Still a beautiful, positive woman.
Thanks so much for your reply and hope your mum has a happy life 😊

