You need meds. Ask her doc about Seroquel and a small PRN Ativan dose for very bad nights. 
While I hear that your grandmother is having distressing delusions, if they aren't distressing it is much more comforting to the person if you go along with them. Does she see a squirrel in the house? Oh interesting, maybe you can help.by letting it outside and then moving the conversation to something else. 

I would say though that meds would be the first thing to get in order. It's going to add quality of life to all of you including her. She may not be "herself" but with this diagnosis she won't ever be herself. So it will be less distressing on everyone for her to be calm and not so worried. 
Sun downing is hell.  In my experience it was short lived.  We found over the counter melatonin and sticking to a schedule helped some.  It sounds like it’s probably time for a check up and possible meds to manage the hallucinations.  We used a sleeping pill for a short bit to help “reset” sleeping habits and then switched to melatonin (all under Doctor supervision). I also remove distractions (tv, radio) half an hour before bed so sleeping is a bit more of a natural transition.  I use an old school plug timer that shits off the noise makers that initially is up setting but a few mins in the quiet and things are calm again and soon boredom makes bed seem a touch better.  As I’m not the one turning off the electronics I’m not the bad guy anymore.  
Strangely, when symptoms get much worse in a short period of time, sometimes it turns out to be a bladder infection.

Sundowning is definitely a thing, and dementias get worse over time, sometimes quite rapidly, but it's always worth it to get tested for infection when things get worse in an unexpected hurry.

Hope that helps!
I'm so sorry. Sounds like Sun downers, sedatives from the doc are definitely in order. Sometimes ativan has the opposite effect of some people and can be quite disturbing if you don't know that. 
Check out the dementia australia organisation. Heaps of resources and help sheets. There's one for 'sundowning' as well.
I thought Seroquel specifically said it’s not meant for older people with dementia. My granny is on it and she’s a zombie. 

That's what I was gonna say. Just go with it. Someone's dying? Oh, the doctor gave them some tablets and sent them home. Dog in a bad way? Oh, he's recovering from an operation. Getting ready for a day out? It's too early to leave yet. Just sit down for a bit.

If you're in the position for it, I used to set up a bed in my grandma's  room, so I'd be first there when she got up and started causing trouble.
Thank you so much for your reply. Unfortunately, I have tried these techniques and I’ve tried to redirect her delusions in a positive way in the ways you’ve suggested. I’ll say things in the vein that you suggested, just reassuring her, not fighting the delusions and play into them to an extent to assure her that things are okay, but she just gets even more confused and aggressive and it becomes even harder to get her to bed. I think she may be a bit further along than her doctor suspects. She can’t grasp basic concepts, can barely put her words together and is constantly blaming me for everything (I don’t understand why she blames me, but there was an incident last night where she told me that I was responsible for all of the voices that she’s been hearing lately and that I’m ve

Thanks so much for all of your input! I really appreciate your help!
Thank you so much for sharing your own experience and your input.

I think the course of action here is going to have to be some sort of sedative or sleeping pill. I don’t think melatonin will do the trick seeing as she has had it before for different reasons and it didn’t make any difference. I think a sleeping pill with some sedative effects would be most effective because when she is getting up in the middle of the night, she is way too active (pacing backwards and forward, quickly walking around in circles, walking up and down our stairs (which worries me even though she is very able bodied), constantly fiddling with things or having to occupy her hands).

Anyways, you’re doing such a great job with the way that you’re taking care of your person with dementia, that sounds like an absolutely fantastic routine that you’ve put a lot of thought into.

Although in my case, I can’t really provide this amount of care seeing as I am currently working and I’m completing university. I can cook, clean, ensure she is keeping up her personal hygiene and make sure that she isn’t doing anything dangerous, but I really don’t have the time to do much more considering the other things that I have to keep up with. As well as my time limitations effecting my ability to make a routine for her, she’s extremely oppositional and never listens to anything I have to say unless I’ve been gently coaxing her for about half an hour into doing what I say.
Thank you so much for this advice! When I take her to the doctor on Monday, I will definitely mention this to him and try to get her to do a urine test. I think that she has been sundowning for a while, probably quite a number of years, but this just seems absolutely crazy. It seems as though she has suddenly started to hallucinate and have no grip on reality just over the past few weeks. Something doesn’t really seem right to me.. it just seems very strange that her disease would progress so quickly into those symptoms. When I go to the doctor, I’m going to ask if it could be due to a clash between her medications (I’ve heard of similar symptoms in elderly people with medications interacting badly) or an infection because I would definitely like to rule these things out.

Thanks so much for your input, I really appreciate it!
Thanks so much for your reply and input!

So, I originally suspected that the reason she is so much more agitated and difficult at night was because of sundown syndrome, but after doing some research on it, it seems that it is concentrated around twilight/early evening.

With my grandmother, most of our problems with her are in the early hours of morning (somewhere between about 1am and 5:30am).

We have definitely noticed for many years that she begins to start fighting us all and treating us all terribly after 5PM, but I’m not sure if that is just her base personality or the dementia (things have been like that for probably over ten years).

I was actually thinking to myself about that the other day and wondering whether she has had dementia for much longer than we actually anticipated.

My grandfather did actually try giving her some LR Valium when she was extremely agitated on one occasion and it seemed to work pretty well because it knocked her out for about eight hours (I know.. we probably shouldn’t have given it to her, but we didn’t really have many other options available to us in the moment). Maybe Ativan may have some sort of merit as a possible treatment option for her?
Thanks so much for this! I’ve actually already checked these out, just wanted to hear some people’s personal experiences with sundowning, whether they actually thought that this constitutes sundowning and whether anyone has any tips for our household before we can take her to the doctor and get some sort of medication to fix the problem.
It’s frequently used with great success on the elderly with dementia. Recently there is a little concern about it because of studies showing “increased mortality” when used on the elderly with dementia. Quite frankly, this is ridiculous.  Alzheimer’s type dementia is a terminal brain disease, so who cares about “increased mortality” when you’re trying to get some quality of life? I had this conversation with my mother’s doctor before she would agree to prescribe it. That’s a relativity new black box warning. The zombie issue you mention Is a potential consequence  of any antipsychotic. Seroquel is noted to be less sedating than most actually. Perhaps your grandmother has too high of a dose.
I don’t mean to sound callous when I say this, but I’m of the mind that I would much prefer my grandmother to be a medicated zombie than someone who is constantly anxious, aggressive and sleep deprived. Our family can’t keep up with her in her current state and her symptoms without any medication are not only lessening her quality of life, but the quality of life of our whole family.
Thanks for this! I have tried going along with things and being very agreeable so as not to make things worse or worry her.. but it doesn’t work too well. It actually tends to make her even more angry and confused when I try to redirect her delusions.

I’m unfortunately not able to keep doing this and caring for her in the middle of the night, seeing as I’m currently working part time and completing law school. I really need my sleep and my grades and work is starting to slip because I keep getting woken up. A bed in her bedroom or sleeping in her room at night wouldn’t be feasible.

Thanks so much for your recommendation and advice though, very much appreciated!
No one has any right to judge you for the Valium. Until you've been in that situation, you don't know how hard and heartbreaking it is. I know we had to try several different drugs before we found one that worked for Grandpa. In my opinion, for our Grandpa, keeping him calm and okay is the most important, even if it required keeping him on light sedatives. We recently had to move him into a nursing home. It was a hard decision but I'm glad we did. God bless you for taking care of your family! You are not alone.
That's great! It all depends on your doctor/medical officer and their level of experience. If you are in Australia you can call DBMAS they are behaviour specialists and they give good practicae advice that usually isn't  about relying on meds.
"Quality vs. quantity." That's where we are now with my mother. We've stopped ALL of her meds (high bp, fast-acting insulin, heart meds, etc) except her slow-release insulin and antipsychotics. She's much happier than she's been in years, with not having the side effects of all the other meds. And she's 84, living with severe dementia in a locked residential unit, and frequently swallows food sending miniscule parts of it down the trachea instead of the esophagus. She's not going to live forever, no one does. Her docs are all on-board. We know that she will eventually die from either a head injury from her frequent falls, aspiration pneumonia, or flat-out choking. My only prayer request is that her death is not a traumatic event for her to go through. Her life has been traumatic enough, she deserves to go peacefully in her sleep.
I feel the same about my mother. 
Thank you so much for your understanding and your advice. All of the comments on this post and advice really do mean so much to me.

While I’ve never had a good relationship with my grandmother (her base personality before she ever got any dementia symptoms was.. well, pretty abusive and horrible), the whole ordeal is really breaking my heart because I feel terrible watching someone slowly lose their autonomy and any grip they have on reality.

For financial reasons, we are trying to prolong us taking care of her at home for as long as we possibly can and we are trying to keep her out of a nursing home until we absolutely have to move her into one.

And yes, I do agree. I have been doing some reading on the internet about arguments for and against sedatives to mitigate dementia symptoms. I’ve personally come to the view that you’re totally right, it is so important to ensure that the sufferer is calm and relaxed, even when that may come at the cost of them being ‘zombielike’.

But yes, thank you so much for your supportive comment and I hope that both your grandpa and your family have an improved quality of life since you’ve moved him into a nursing home. Much love.
As an RN, I agree with your decision and am happy to hear of family members being so sensible, though I am sorry for what you face. I hope the rest of her life and her passing is peaceful. I have the same fears and wishes for my own mother. 
We have DNRs and advanced directives in file *everywhere* for both of my parents.
