I can empathize. My grandfather wasn’t as bad as you describe your dad to be, but he was an epic cunt nonetheless- the archetype of dysfunction in my family.  I couldn’t have cared less when he got sick and died.
I felt the same way about my dad. He died of cancer this year and none of his 6 kids were there. My mom stayed with him literally until his last breath, because she wants to finish her own life knowing she never chose the easy way or abandoned him. She gets to live peacefully with that and my siblings and I get to live peacefully knowing that the asshole who made our lives hell is simply gone. We don’t have to ever deal with him again. I hadn’t had much contact with him over the past 15 years, and still every once in a while i am surprised when I remember that he died. And I smile. 
Ah man I feel you. You have to do what you feel is right for you. By chance have you found         r/raisedbynarcissists ? It's a pretty cool group of people raised by similar parents. They would have a lot of support for you as well. 
Go on and live your life in what makes you happy and don't worry about him. (Easier said than done)
I understand exactly what you are going through. 

I totally agree. My mum and dad separated before I was born. I’ve always lived with my mum but up until 2-ish years ago I saw him every other weekend or so and for 1/3 to 1/2 of every school holiday. I no longer see him.

My mum rarely talks about life with him, but I know it was *Hell* for her. But she’s never given me any specific details, but from what shes said I’m 99% sure he psychologically and possibly physically abused her. He never abused me, but told me lie after lie about my mum. Never believed any of them. But I’m pretty sure that was to try and convince me to live with him to cause my mum more distress.

I plan on never seeing him again until his funeral. If I were to be invited, I’d give a eulogy of all that he’s done. There’s no reason anyone should support a man or woman who is like that.
Clap and a half for you dude
