\> Nursing homes seems too depressing to me.

I'm 57 and you are way too early to be worried about your parents like this. Look at the average age in a "nursing" home, you're talking about 85. So, you have 30 years to go, give or take. A lot can happen in 30 years, look at your own life and how much has changed.

\> I've pondered on maybe once one or both of them can't live on their own build a tiny home, buy a trailer or RV to have them live on my property.

They could live another 45 years, no problem, and you don't want your parents living on your property while you try to live your life. Read Atul Gawande's Being Mortal  [https://www.amazon.com/Being-Mortal-Illness-Medicine-Matters/dp/1250081246](https://www.amazon.com/Being-Mortal-Illness-Medicine-Matters/dp/1250081246) , which you can probably find at your library. It goes into why you don't want your parents living with you, among other things.

\> One of my biggest concern when it comes to my parents is how bad they are with money.

First, if they have no money, medical care will be provided by medicare and, if they have no assets, medicaid. This is US socialized medicine that works well - too bad we all can't have it. My mom and disabled sister have medicare & medicaid and they have the best doctors and hospitals in the city! This gov't support will provide assisted living payments, too, so if your parents are unable to care for themselves, they will still have a place to live, food, and medicine.

\> I've been encouraging my family to get into prepping. Having canned food stored lots of water saved. I'd also love to get them to start canning.

You have your hobbies, and they have theirs. There's no way I'm gonna start canning, and saved water is easy to buy (go buy some for them). Imagine I came to you and said, "I think you should start sewing your own clothes and doing your own car maintenance. It's what I do and it's really good to do." Do you feel that resistance? That resistance is why trying to coerce them into doing things YOU think are important is not a nice idea.

You go out and live your life, and live it to the fullest, exactly how you want to. They are living their lives how they want to. You have about 30 years to before you have to start being concerned. 15 at the least. If you are eager, read about aging in the US (assuming you are US). Learn about medicare and medicaid, and social security (see how it feels to have someone suggest what you should do?) .

**Edit:** I'm the point person for my 53 y/o disabled sister, my 83 y/o mom, and my 90 and 91 y/o inlaws. My mom and sister live in a 55+ community, just fine on their own. My in-laws are in an independent living facility with the option to start assisted living, going all the way to hospice, when needed. I know the score regarding aging. 

The only suggestion for their age,  and your's as well, is that they have a living will and a will for any assets, and you have a copy of their living will, and know where to find the will for their estate (if they have one). If they don't own a home nor assets worth more than $20,000, the estate will isn't really necessary. 
Your parents are still quite young, but everyone is different, so:

Make sure their affairs are in order, sooner than later. They need to make decisions for themselves about end-of-life decisions (DNR, etc.). They need to appoint someone - you, a sibling - as the trustee of their estate. Even if they don’t have “an estate”. 

I wish I had paid closer attention to what medications my parents are on - I’m concerned that some have done more harm than good. 

If they spend a lot of time at the doctor, try to get more involved. Don’t discount *any* changes in their health, even if they blow it off. My sister in law was more concerned than any of us about an issue my dad was having, and she saved his life. It was cancer. It’s our family’s nature to ignore health problems, so he ignored it, I ignored it, she was the one to say you need to get that checked out *now* and she was right. 
I'm 55 right now - the same age as your parents.  I think it's great that you are thinking about their future.  

Start having those uncomfortable conversations with them about their affairs, if they will discuss it.  Start with the basics.  Do they have a will/ advanced directive/power of attorney?  Would they let you read them?  If you are health care proxy or executor, you should know what your responsibilites are.   
 

Other topics could include: do they have long term care insurance, pre-paid burial/cremation packages or other burial plans?  My cousin bought her family plots years ago, so there is no scrambling around to find some space when you're grieving.  I have a friend whose father wrote his own eulogy!

Also, do you know their medical situation?  I have my mother's meds and medical history in a word doc.  It gets tedious trying to recall all that from memory.   And the older you get, the greater the possibility that there is more of it.

Talking about with them also gives you the opportunity to think about your own situation.  If your own documents aren't prepared, you could ask them for advice.  They may be able to help you! 

Do they have any ideas about how they'd like their services to go?  Preferred music?  Anything they definitely don't want?  I know they are young, but accidents can happen. 

I've had all of these conversations with  my mother.  I learned the hard way, though, by not being prepared when my Dad passed.  The only thing I knew about his situation was he preferred to be cremated.  Oddly, he never mentioned it to my mother.  So, discussion is a good thing:)  I now have my mother's obituary stored in a word doc.  I know the music she likes and I can make a playlist in about 5 minutes.  I have a good plan for her final disposition, just need to pay for it soon.  

It can be a depressing topic, but it is a comfort to know all is in place when you need it.  Good luck!
I think it’s really smart to think about housing now but I’m almost 55 and I only regret not making plans earlier but also happy I didn’t get stuck in a dumb situation. Hindsight is 20/20. I had to scramble to get my dad and myself an apartment that is on the ground floor and walkable everywhere but the only problem is the shower is difficult. I wish we had a yard or something but honestly, being flexible is the best idea for when the time comes. It’s most important to invest some of their assets so they can find a comfortable situation when they need it. 

A agree with paying attention to the meds big time. What a mess that has been. Also, don’t assume that they are as stable as they insist they are. I wish I’d been more assertive with my dad wasting his assets. 
Sorry it's ingrained in me since I was a  child to be a worrier. As for the prepping and canning I'm not forcing them to do it. We live in area prone to hurricanes it's only logical for us to be prepared for that. They are very much on board as much as I am well except for the canning that's something new that I'm trying to see if they are on board. But thank you for your advice I'll definitely have a talk about what you suggested.
Thank you for your tips you've given me some important stuff to consider.
