I have been able to switch my mother to audiobooks from reading. She always loved to read but no longer can focus long enough to read anything more than a child's book. However with the audiobook she can listen for 5 hours straight and still follow the story. Her doctor said that's because a different part of the brain is being used. I also found a free app called Homer which allows you to turn a phone or tablet into a dedicated device for someone with Alzheimer's check it out it's wonderful. The commercial devices for playing MP3 Etc were way expensive.
Hi. If you're grandfather has access, lots of sites have free audio books to listen to direct or download. Like the OP said, choosing and listening to a book is a different experience to reading one. I used a device with my dad that was designed for folks with blindness but which could be a simpler tech re the alzheimer's. Hope
you're grandfather finds something he likes :)
That’s awesome!! We’re just worried about the device being too hard for him to use. Sometimes he still screws up the tv or the computer because I think he forgets what he’s doing. I’ll definitely check out homer as someone offered to let us borrow an iPod to see if he likes it 
Yeah he has a library membership so we’ll be able to get books that way as long as they’re not all loaned out
But I think he’ll really enjoy it! 
Homer is for Android, it has its own website for information. I went out and bought a cheap TracFone and did not buy any time to use it as a phone which I then used to make into an audio player. I had first tried it out on my phone. It's very simple to use and to turn off the audio book or music you simply place it face down. My mother is pretty far along yet she is able use it. My biggest problem with her in the past is her taking things apart and trying to figure things out because she no longer understands. It is amazing to me that she is still able to enjoy the audiobook experience so much. One of my friends has told me that there are number of people in the memory Clinic she frequents that don't talk yet will love to listen to books.
That’s really interesting! Thanks for the info I will definitely be checking it out. I emailed his local library to see if they have anything he can just lend out so we’ll see what they say but I will definitely be looking into homer. He’s not that far along but he gets frustrated really easily and then that makes super simple tasks hard for him so I just want to get something that all he has to do is hit play and it will work for him. 
Do you have a direct link to the app? Ive searched and cant find it anywhere.
