Is anyone else wondering about herpes virus? Maybe supplementing Lysine...shingles vaccine...even valtrax?
https://universityhealthnews.com/daily/memory/ketogenic-diet-shows-promising-results-for-all-dementia-stages/
https://www.selfhacked.com/blog/alzheimer/
Have you considered a wfpb diet? ( wholefood plant based)

Leading neurologists have claimed it can halt and even reverse alzheimers but most people dont like the idea of basically going vegan
Doctor of Oriental medicine checking in.  Acupuncture and herbal formulas can slow down the progress of Alzheimers, but unfortunately we can not stop the progression of the disease. 
you can get LED devices giving comparable results as the vielight for as low as 10usd

https://www.reddit.com/r/Alzheimers/comments/950z52/led_light_therapy_could_radically_change_our/
Can anyone please speak about personal experience with Noopept in the treatment of Alzheimer's/dementia?
I always dismissed the pathogen hypothesis of Alzheimer's Disease. I accept the idea that infections can exacerbate existing damage, but not that they are the initiating event. The dozens of infections tied to AD can all be better explained by the microvessel hypothesis:

Diabetes, trans fats, smoking, pollution, other risk factors -> Microvessel dysfunction -> Chronic low-grade ischemia -> [Sustained HIF-1alpha and VEGF exposure -> improper angiogenesis -> breakdown of the blood-brain-barrier](https://ww.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2753398/) -> opportunistic infections.

Furthermore lysine was never actually shown to be beneficial against HSV despite nice theorycrafts about viral replication.

Really? I’ve heard of ketogenic diets but not of this. Do you know where you read this? Would be interested in more. 
I'd really like to see some studies for some theory like this. Truly if it's as simple as going vegan there would be hundreds of people that could be enrolled in a study.

Edit: Looked for studies and all I could find is talks about diets that help prevent Alzheimer's not treat it.
it's controversial. hard to isolate its effects, 
[Noopept is a HIF-Prolyl Hydroxylase 2 inhibitor](https://ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4837574/). It stimulates angiogenesis via the HIF-1alpha -> VEGF pathway.

Considering [Alzheimer's Disease is already characterized by excessive VEGF and angiogenesis, and long-term VEGF exposure is detrimental](https://ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2753398/), I would say Noopept is worse than nothing.

I can accept that. But I feel like keeping out/low the the worst aggressors in the body—e.g. anti-viral vaccines, would be best to keep from deteriorating rapidly. 

I thought that for lysine, it was now seen as keeping arginine from being transported which is what HSV needed. 
Check out the book how not to die, whole chapter on alzheimers and backed with nutritional studies, you can also look at nutritionfacts.org. he has a whole video playlist I believe :)

It means not animal products or refined oils basically. Keto is shit, fasting is good for you in moderation and can be amazing for healing, but slamming animal products and fats into your body is only going to gunk up an already gunked up brain. You can go keto on wfpb, but honestly, just eating wfpb is so good on it's own. It helps more than just Alzheimer's
Yeah, prevention is best, but you can atleast stop the disease progressing any further. 
I wonder how much worse it can be than what's in use now. FWIW, I'm not a clinician of any kind, but did try Noopept myself and the memory rejuvenation was real.  The ill effect for me was only flat affect.  Not desirable for a healthy person, but otherwise was not harmful to me.

Oh, the memories that were sharpened and brought up in clear detail were both positive and negative.  My ex-husband stopped taking it because he was unwilling to process through being reminded of his historical shortcomings and other unprocessed bad memories.

We started taking it in an effort to heal our brains from oxidative damage brought on by sustained stress that we had endured for years.  Other people (as can be be found online) take it as part of "stacking" racetams. 
Thank you for linking those papers. I'm going to forward them to some who could discern more than myself. 
Who wrote this book?
It's just there's no evidence to suggest that it does either of those things. People on this subreddit have people they know who currently have the disease. It's disingenous to suggest that it would do either of those things when there's no peer reviewed evidence of that being true.

Not to mention the diets that I saw proposed such as the MIND diet or mediteranian diet are not solely plant based. If anything they remove intake of red meat but fish and poultry is still acceptable.
Dr gregor, he runs a not for profit that reads the 100 000 nutritional studies released per year and condensed them for the public. He doesnt sell anything, just wants everyone to be healthier. 
A vegan zealot who should be completely ignored. He exaggerates the results of vegan diets, and completely ignores all the beneficial results from low carb and keto diets. Many of his claims are myths that were already debunked, for example that antioxidants are good, or that diabetes is caused by intramuscular fat, or that heart disease is caused by cholesterol.

Fish and poultry are just as bad, theres over 100k studies released in nutrition per year, and almost all that look at the links between diet and alzheimers show positive results in wfpb diets. 

Science only determines infants could feel pain in the early 90s, you give it too much credit
Here's the citation of the paper showing how a diet that contains poultry is good at prevention against alzheimers.

MIND Diet Associated with Reduced Incidence of Alzheimer’s Disease Martha Clare Morris, S.D., Christy C. Tangney, Ph.D., [...], and Neelum T. Aggarwal, M.D. 2015.

Unless you can provide some actual evidence behind claims they are just baseless. There's nothing you've shown to suggest what you're saying is true. 
It's the same kind of thinking prevalant in society that 1 or 2 drinks a day is healthy for you because its effects on your heart. Meanwhile if you look at the scientific literature the data overwhelmingly suggests otherwise. It's interesting you say this about science when the information you're stating was probably given to you by a media company who tried to interpret a scientific article and the true meaning was lost along the way.

Unless we're going to have cold hard facts there's no point telling people to make their loved ones do something when they have such little time left.

Edit: For anyone who wants to see what I'm talking about look up "plant based diet alzheimer's" on google and see all the click bait articles that pop up. No direct links to any studies whatsoever, just a layman's interpretation of what some other journalist interpreted from a paper. Then look up "MIND diet and Alzheimer's" and you will be linked to peer reviewed articles on pubmed that show it's benefit in prevention of Alzheimer's which actually isn't even that important to most people here as their family members already have it.
The 1 to 2 drinks myth is based off the original study design where they used recovering alcoholics as the 0 drinks a day group. This caused the 0 drinks group to appear worse than the 1 to 2. I'm not here stirring people up, evidence has shown that a wholefood plant diet is the healthiest one.

You want evidence, go check nutritionfacts.org, search alzheimers and enjoy the mountain of studies condensed into useful videos
This is the problem. You're not an expert in the topic just because you watched some videos. Heck I'm not even an expert in Alzheimer's I study molecular biology of muscle, but you can definetely apply logic to other scenarios. Watching a condensed video interpreted by people with an agenda to sell a certain type of product is misleading at best. I can almost guarantee you won't find an article on pubmed that suggests what you are claiming. You're saying a plant based diet can stop or even CURE Alzheimer's. You realize we understand the mechanism by which Alzheimer's works right? Explain how a plant based diet would remove Tau protein and amyloid plaques as well as regenerate neurons that have already died in people with Alzheimer's? Surely if you're making such a bold claim you would know the mechanism by which your diet is working.
