We found all of the cards from my father in laws wallet in the creases of the cushions in his recliner. His driver's license had even managed to work it's way down to inside the lower liner. Also found some stuff under his mattress and inside shoes. Hope this helps!
My wife lost her wedding ring months ago, and I've been unable to find it. Stash valuable or personally valuable things before they get lost. I hope you can find your mom's watch.
Laundry basket.    Check in the bedding and behind the bed.   Try checking the trash cans.

I found jewelry under one of the produce drawers in the fridge, once.
Under the mattress, inside a kleenex box. Watch when they complain about losing an object - sometimes they stand right in front of something that is exactly where it was stashed.
The fridge
If she has a box of Kleenex or some such tissue, look in there, my wife would do that occasionally. 
Also,, if she some cereal in the morning,, look in the box of cereal 
Check the pillowcases?
My husband was this way with his watch. It was a simple Casio but he had to have it but also his it occasionally.  I ended up with several of them as I would buy one if it went missing for more than a day because he would be so upset every time he realized it was missing.  
This particular watch is no biggie as far as cost goes, it's a sixty dollar watch we bought her so she would stop wearing her truly expenzive one, although I have been debating awhile about putting her nice stuff somewhere she cant get to without us knowing.
I've been thinking about stocking up. It's a good way to reduce some emotional turmoil if I can "find" it everytime it goes missing by pulling another one out of some hidey hole
I would buy inexpensive replacements for my mom too. She didn’t remember what a necklace looked like, just that she had one.
My wife went through a period of fascination with her jewellery where she wanted to have a routine of putting on rings and such, but ended up where she'd randomly take them off without my knowing about it. 

After I noticed that the wedding ring was off, and that I couldn't find it, I just hid all her rings. She didn't seem to mind, and things continued from there with no controversy.
