She knows she's forgetful.  What seems to bother her is social awkwardness.  So just expect it, keep being a good neighbor, and maybe get some contact info of her family if her yard starts looking raggedy.  That may be a sign she's starting to need help. :)
Enter into her reality.   In other words, when she comes over to introduce herself, respond in kind (introduce yourself and anyone with you) as though it really is the first time you've met. 
Just roll with it.  It's likely that as you chat her memory will come back.  Transitionary times can be particularly difficult for dementia sufferers. 
Just go with it. It's distressing to her to be reminded, and does no harm to tell a white lie in this case. I have to do this with my sister quite a bit. 
learning when and how to lie is one of the hardest things for me, and i say “is” because it’s ongoing - there’s always something new that’s been forgotten.  but it’s really helpful for making the other person feel normal.
My dad gets really agitated at any sign or insinuation that he doesn't have a perfect memory and will become very upset. At least for her she just seemed mildly confused, but I would definitely just go along with it. 
Introduce yourself again. Do t say things like “do t you remember?” It embarrassing. My granny used to say that she new something was wrong with her brain. They know you on some level. Do they have a pet or something that y’all can talk about?
It's a pretty common thing for people to struggle with. If it helps, there's a lot of "unlies" you can tell that aren't technically lies without being the whole truth either. 

In particular, focus on the feelings, either your own or the other person's. Something like "I'm so happy you came over to chat" or similar isn't really agreeing that this is the first time they met, but it isn't hurtful either. 

Or if someone tells you their spouse is hiding things on them which is why they can't find anything, saying "you must feel very frustrated" is a great middle ground. 
thanks, yeah. i do try that too.
