My mom did this and I’m afraid there aren’t any answers if she’s getting her medical needs met. They get something stuck in their head and you can’t argue with them because they aren’t being logical.  The best you can do is take care of yourself the best you can and don’t get too wrapped up on trying to convince her she’s wrong. You can reassure her that everything is ok. Sorry this is happening it’s one of the worst feelings when someone you love gets paranoid. 
You can also try going along with her.   "Yes,  hubby and I had an argument,  but we've made up now, and all is fine."  My father used to be absolutely convinced his assisted living center moved him to a new location every night.  I tried to convince him otherwise.  I finally told him I would talk to the managers  and ask them to stop, and in any case i would always find him.   That worked.   He was never moved again. 
My FIL's paranoia has always been tough for the family to handle.  It is so frustrating to discern which of his stories are complete delusions and which are true. 
We have a lot of problems with paranoia. My dad believes that we are lying to the doctors about him and no amount of explaining what has happened in the past will change how he feels about it, because he doesn't remember. He's told us that we're "fantasizing" when he just can't remember.

&#x200B;

We recently had to take his phone away because he was worked up and wouldn't stop trying to call relatives to tell them untrue things about us. We're not interested in being investigated because his paranoid mind has made things up.

&#x200B;

He once told a relative that we wouldn't let him eat unless he walked 2 miles a day...

And that we were holding him hostage, and yes, he used the word hostage.

&#x200B;

We do our best to ignore it.
the onset of my mom's illness was three years ago, in April 2015, when she was in her mid/late 50s. There was no apparent memory loss nor other symptoms that my family was aware of that was characteristic of dementia for the first 2- 2.5 years. 

Rather, it was just like a switch was flipped, and all of the sudden my very rational, very intelligent, no-nonsense mother became convinced that the government/police was following her wherever she went, investigating her for some sort of fraud that she thought had to do with her not changing the address on her drivers license. There was a week where she was just freaking out, traveling covertly between and hiding out in various relatives' and family friends' homes, ultimately holing up in a remote farmhouse shared by my extended family, all the while talking about escaping the country because she was so scared she was going to be arrested. All of the sudden, every car, every passerby with a cell phone, any stranger who looked in her direction, looked "suspicious" to her. She became terrified at the prospect of traveling into cities. My little sister had to lie to her to get her to a downtown Chicago hospital. When she was there she acted like she was fine and told the doctors she was feeling much better, but as soon as she left, as I was walking her back to my family's apartment nearby, she went right back to being convinced that everyone was watching her. The next morning around 6am or something, she woke me up because there was a car illegally parked in front of the apartment building. My mom has always been stubborn when she makes up her mind about something, and this translated into her utter, absolutely insistent denial that what she was experiencing wasn't real. My dad and uncle even arranged meetings with lawyers to help calm her fears about her "legal issue," as she described it, but when each assured her that there was nothing for her to worry about from a legal perspective, she'd insist that they weren't specialized enough to adequately address her concerns. 

For the first 2-ish years, she kept believing that she had this legal issue and that she was under surveillance. She insisted on staying in various rentals in rural areas, and my family had to sell the downtown Chicago apartment that she had just finished renovating and had initially taken a lot of pride in, because she refused to return, and the mortgage became too much to balance. During a stay at one rental home in suburban Chicago, she was convinced that there was a pattern to the frequency of the cars passing the house. 

Also during the first 2-ish years, she just lived between a series of rental homes, moving to a new one, either outside of Chicago or in rural Michigan every few months. In general, she completely stopped going outside, except to travel to another rental home. She also refused to drive herself, and insisted on lying down in the back seats of cars when traveling between locations, in fear that she'd be spotted by someone surveilling her and that they'd follow her to the new location. One time, leaving a rental house became an actual covert operation, with my family splitting into two cars that we loaded strategically, while hidden from the street, and after sunset, so anyone surveilling the house wouldn't have been able to see which car my mom got into. 

After the onset, she completely stopped using email, after years of loving email and using it regularly for business and to stay in touch with friends and family. She stopped using Facebook. She stopped using her iPhone, and would only use landlines and burner phones. 

It wasn't until last fall, so October/November 2017, that she actually began showing symptoms of memory loss. Before then, even though both her parents had had dementia, and not until their 70s/80s, my family had been desperately holding out hope that it was just some form of psychosis from which she could recover. But finally in January 2018 we received a confident diagnosis that it was early onset dementia. It's fucked up because there are lingering paranoid elements, even as her memory is now declining rapidly. 

And there's more: From the beginning of this whole horrible mess that's completely changed the course of the life of each of my family members—and derailing any hope of my mom being able to live the life she wanted for herself when she was in her right mind just a few years ago—my mom has repeatedly and adamantly refused to get an MRI. So the anti-psychotics she was taking for a long time during all of this most likely exacerbated what is most likely Lewy Body dementia...but the doctors can't even treat her for that without 100% confirming the diagnosis, which can only be done with an MRI. But my mom is too afraid to get one—another figment of lingering paranoia. So her memory is suddenly vanishing and then that's it I guess. 

The weight of the sadness that comes over me when I think about everything that's happened feels like more than I can bear. Any advice to deal with it would be appreciated. 
Thanks. 
Just when I feel like I have this disease worked out, some other part of it kicks in and sends me in the opposite direction. 
wow. I wasnt expecting a story like this. I'm so sorry is all I can say really. I cant even imagine how'd begin to cope with that. 
Yep that’s what it does. I’m so sorry. It’s very disorienting so it’s important you have “normal “ people you can talk to so you can stay healthy. 
😘😘😘
