Lowey body dementia and frontal lobe dementias are especially hard to manage. 

I recommend you ask you father’s doctor (GP or neurologist)to refer your father to a geriatric psychiatric hospital(or ward) for evaluation. In a gero psych physicians can evaluate different treatments for him. From there you can try to transition him back into a care facility. You may also try looking into small “board and care” facilities once he can transition out of  psych.

You may have to fight to get him into gero psych because of his age. They may recommend a regular psych ward.  And if your in a rural community there may not be a local gero psych. I would recommend advocating for a gero psych based on his unique condition they offer more of expertise in dementia.  Also, depending on his insurance he may need to be transferred from an ER (his physician should be able to guid you through this). 

This would be a temporary solution to help your father get a treatment plan but-  should help him transition into a long term care facility after his release. 

Good luck!
Where are you located? Country wise, it can make a huge difference what your options are.
Well, for what it's worth, given his extraordinarily fast progression of late, his doctor has placed him on hospice care, which I guess allows for a greater degree of sedation than would otherwise be allowable, so he's moving back into his latest memory care unit...

Montana, big state without a lot of people in it...
The only good solution. The sedation is essential, they really can be quite dangerous. My grandfather had a similar early onset dementia and swung around and broke my jaw when I was five. 


Ah crap. I’m in Canada so I’m sure it’s quite different.  

Is he on a waiting list for a Long term care Home? We have a designation called “CRISIS” which is for violent/behavioural patients. They are specifically put in to private rooms (see: way more expensive) sometimes with 24hr supervision. The hospital may be an option for you, especially since he’s been kicked out of other LTC facilities. I’m really sorry you’re going through this, if you ever need someone to talk to who is dealing with the exact same shit, feel free to reach out!
