Ok, going to need a bit more information on your situation. 

First, I need a location (county/state should be enough if in the USA) to see if there are any caregiver stipends provided by your county government. - you can search this yourself by going to your county website and looking up "health and human services" ,"disability and Aging services" something along those lines. 

PM me the location if you'd like to keep ot private.

2nd, have your father call their health insurance, and see what they offer as far as caregiving goes. 

Are either one of them veterans? 

That will get me a bit closer to helping you find an answer.
I don't know the specifics on this, but my mom has Medicare and at DJFS they told us that if a family member is legally your caregiver they can get paid for the work they do to help you. Not sure if that helps, but good luck!
My county administers a federal government grant that gives me $1000/year that has to be used for respite care or adult daycare.
The best part is that they connect me with the agencies that provide care.

https://www.payingforseniorcare.com/respite-care/lifespan-respite-care-program.html


Hi there, 

We've created a platform that provides skills based training for families managing dementia at home. **The platform is free to use.** The content is evidence based and created by healthcare professionals. 

We have training on how to help shower your loved one, or how to manage troubling behaviour. All of our content is gamified so the more you learn, the more rewards you can get to redeem for products in our store. Our solution is always being improved and we hope this helps as many people as possible.

It's free for families. Check it out here: [http://trial.trualta.com/login](http://trial.trualta.com/login)
It does. Both of my grandparents are considered dependent now and my dad is required to live with them so he can’t work. This should help tons hopefully when I get the chance I will see about what I need to do through our social services dep.
