Depending on his stage, it is OK not to tell him. "She could not come today. You will see her soon." Repeat as needed. Could be true depending on your religious beliefs. 
I'm so sorry you lost your mother.  Losing a parent is so hard.

Does your father ask about or talk about your mother at all? It might be too distressing and confusing to try and explain to him in his condition that his wife has passed away.  And then, if he forgets, he would have to be told and the pain of losing her would begin anew.

One option might be to not tell him at all.  If his memories of your mother were as she was years ago, let him stay in the comfort of those.   If he is aware enough of what is going on, then I would say yes, gently tell him what happened.




This is a very personal question and I suggest that you talk to those that know your dad to help decide if and how you should tell him.

For some individuals they will not be able to remember that a loved one has passed away. They continue to ask about them and they experience the loss and grief as if it was the first time hearing about it. 

Some individuals may still be able to grasp the concept and telling him while it may be painful may be being respectful of your parents relationship.  If he has limited short term memory I would consider perhaps telling him on the day of her funeral if you are having one, letting him grieve and see what happens the next day. If he seems to not remember she's passed I wouldn't bring it up again- when he asks about her you could talk about happy memories you have of her- or tell a therapeutic lie and say she's out shopping slowly guide the conversation away from your mom. 
Just tell him she will be there soon, out for coffee or whatever. To tell him she passed is cruel. I have seen this and they forget and go through it all over again. 
Oh God, one of the worst days of my life was telling my dad that his ladyfriend had passed.  If I could do it over again, I wouldn't have.  He kept forgetting what I had told him but remembered that it was very bad so I had to tell him over and over again with him experiencing his grief anew each and every time.  It was brutal.  I can't even imagine going through this while grieving the loss myself.  I don't think there would be anything wrong with just letting him believe that she is out.  In fact, in my dads later days of dementia he forgot that my mother had died some years ago and often asked where she was.  I had learned my lesson and just told him she was visiting a friend or had gone grocery shopping.  I don't see any benefit in burdening either of you with this. 
I could have written this myself as I had to tell my mom that dad had passed. She had Early Onset FTD for years and lived at home, but then my dad became ill as well. We had to move her into a home shortly after, but he would still visit frequently despite his illness. She was not THAT far gone at that point, (She has since passed as well.) but was a danger to herself and he was unable to supervise her to the degree necessary (She kept leaving the oven on and things like that.) I was the one who found my father and, as an only child, had to deal with everything. We discussed it with the professionals at her LTC home and what we ended up doing was gathering as much family as we could, taking her into a private room so that she wouldn't constantly associate her surroundings with this news, and gently letting her know. She understood what was going on in that moment and had an appropriate response to it. It diminished quite quickly afterward, yet we brought her to his memorial service and she didn't really seem to know why she was there, but was happy to see a lot of her old friends. Over time, as she got worse, she occasionally thought I was my father, especially when I showed her old pictures. In my opinion there is a fine line, and this is totally up to you to figure out unfortunately, whether it would be beneficial or not. For example, I bought a house a couple years after my father passed and really wanted to bring my mother over to show her as it was my first and I still wanted her to be proud of me, but I knew she would either not know what was going on or assume that she would now be living with me. I decided not to do it at all. I wish you all the best with this difficult situation.
I hope you are coping with the loss of your Mum. I lost mine a few weeks ago: it's not an easy time. 
When my Dad died, Mum was already pretty advanced. I tried to tell her once,and she reacted with shock but then completely forgot about it, it was if I hadn't told her at all.
 I agree with other posters that it's kinder not to tell. I learnt very early on in my Mum's dementia journey that telling the truth is not the best way to deal with many things, it only causes more confusion and upset. 
I hope you find a way to explain your Mum's absence to Dad that reassures him, but doesn't put you through the emotional wringer every time. Much love to you. 
Thank you :)

He's at the stage where he has almost zero focus and his sentences - although coherent - don't make any sense but I still worry that it will register in some part of his mind and I don't want to risk causing him more distress.

My Mum wasn't able to visit him owing to her own health issues so he's accustomed to her not being around. I really think it would be kinder not to tell him.
It's so hard, isn't it? On the one hand, I feel like I owe it to him to try to explain but having read the other replies here, I can't help but think that it would be kinder to just pretend to him that my Mum is still with us.
I'm so sorry you went through that.

It helps that he's in a care home and that he's therefore used to my Mum not being around. I'd considered telling him once and then playing it by ear from there but having read your reply and others, I don't think it would be in his best interests.
I can relate to so much of this. Mum had already been ill for some time when my Dad's symptoms started to become impossible to ignore but she's very resistant to change, so I had a battle on my hands to get him to the Doctor for a diagnosis (I'm an only child, too.)

Thank you for your kind wishes and I'm sorry for your losses, too. 
Thank you so much for your kind words and I'm so sorry for your loss. My love and thoughts to you, too.
There isn't an easy answer to this question. Whatever you choose to do if you come to that decision with trying to keep your dad's best interest at heart you will not wrong. 

I'm sorry for the loss of your mom and I wish you strength and courage as you walk the Dementia Journey with your dad. 
This disease is cruel enough.  When you have to opportunity, take the path that causes the least grief and distress. 
Thank you :)
