https://www.alz.org/alzheimers-dementia/stages

Your mom is going to get worse - this is the beginning. That was exactly my mother a few years ago but she's been living with it for 15 years because she has early onset so she's young. 

Progression is totally up to the person and can be slow as molasses or can kill them in a few years. Keep her physically healthy - get exercise, make sure she is fed regularly (healthy and nutritious) and sleeps well. She will become like a toddler so routine is important, meaning eat breakfast at a certain time, giving her snacks, and regular light exercise. 

Edit: Music is wonderful and you can clap, dance, and sing. It's all about keeping them happy and relaxed at this point. You'll get to a stage where keeping them in a happy mood at the present moment is all that matters.

I'm sorry you have to go through this. It sucks and I wouldn't wish it on anybody. 

If she has trouble sleeping, you can take her to the doctors although my dad doesn't have my mom on anything because side effects and she's so far along that it doesn't matter. 
There are [5 to 7 stages](https://blog.caregiverhomes.com/the-7-stages-of-alzheimers) as far as I know.  My wife was just diagnosed at stage 5 per the link.  Note that up to 20% of diagnosis of this disease can be wrong (Need to look up the source on that so not a hard fact) (Also going through an age related dementia with my mother who is 92.  Still sharp as a dull tack. )  Aside from the ()'s there is no current drug available that treats this disease.  There are some that retard the symptoms but only delay the outcome.  A good gateway for info and help is to search for the an "Aging and Disability Resource Center"s in your county.   Also start hugging your mom every morning so this will be part of a routine that she can rely on.  Wish us both luck.
I'd establish her with a neurologist/gerontologist or both. They can help the most from a allopathic or western medicine side. Not that these medications can help that mu h at this point.
As for supplements or non traditional therapy, you can see a naturopath or Functional MD. There is a book called The End of Alzheimer's by a research Neurologist. Can't say how much it works as we haven't tried that protocol with my mother in law. You can also look at Craniosacral massage therapy, even if it does nothing else it will help calm the nervous system. 
My mother as early onset Alzheimer's and shes 56...im her son and carer for her...if there's anything i can recommend that has helped is this supplement 
[Lions Mane] (https://au.iherb.com/pr/Fungi-Perfecti-Host-Defense-Lion-s-Mane-Memory-Nerve-Support-120-Veggie-Caps/61802)
from this we can see she has been a lot more alert and her speaking has improved 🙂 

I also make her a shake with turmeric coconut oil whey protein this also has suggested that helps communication within the brain.

hope this has helped ✌️ 
Unfortunately, there isn't any cure. However, you can talk to your doctor as well as do your own research. I'd advise getting in touch with the Alzheimers organization.
there are medications to help manage the *symptoms* of Alzheimer's. there are not any supplements or herbs that have been shown to help. the best thing for Alzheimer's other than medication is exercise, so definitely keep up with the daily walks. music and art can also be extremely helpful, and talking with the person about things they know a lot about can help them get oriented.


and honestly I don't blame her for getting lost, most subdivisions are full of lookalike houses and confusing streets and cul de sacs...
I agree with all you've said. I don't know what stage my wife is in (but it's pretty late stage), but it's been important to take walks with her, and we every night have a little dance to music videos she loves, and sometimes she even remembers the words.

Her taste in food has changed, and complains when I feed her food that isn't sweet (like pasta). She only really enjoys food that is sweet, which is of course, suboptimal.

She's not a native English speaker, but used to be completely fluent in English, so when I sit her down in front of the television, I make sure the shows she watches are in English, to at least give her mind a chance to exercise.
Oh jeez :/. Thanks so much. I'm trying my best to keep her on a schedule and am getting her out to do things everyday. I'll keep going with it. I'm so sorry to hear about your mother as well :/
Do you know of any types of drugs or herbal supplements I can give to my mom to perhaps delay this???
Thanks so much!!! I will read up on this. I'm sorry to hear about your mother in law
That is hilarious about food. My mom only likes food that is sweet now too! She'll eat meat and rice but she'll pour honey all over it. My mom isn't a native English speaker either but she tends to speak English more to us now for some reason. She'll revert back to Vietnamese when she talks to herself. 

Music and dancing/clapping and just being in a cheery good mood definitely does wonder for their mood! 
:((( I'm so sorry. God that kills me so much to hear.

Do you know of anything I can give to my mom? Like supplements or medicines?
My FIL has early onset.  My husband and I have been together for 13 years and it’s incredible how much his dad has changed in the last few years.  I’d honestly say he started showing symptoms maybe three years into our relationship.  His dad just turned 64 last week, so he was 54.  At first he just asked the same questions over and over, got confused about his daily schedule, etc.. In the last four or five years his eating habits have shifted significantly. If we go to a buffet for dinner, he’s putting jello on top of his carrots, sweet and sour sauce on corn.  He lives out of state with my step MIL and I don’t think anyone is intervening in his nutritional intake.  It’s frustrating as an in law because it’s basically “not my place to say anything”  as far as my husband is concerned.   Anyway, sorry to rant!  I just found it interesting that someone else has noted a change in eating habits.  I try to keep track of the progression of events, this was definitely a noticeable change for us.  
MUSIC helps as she loses her cognitive skills like being ablet to read and watch tv, etc. 
If anything, I would have her see a neurologist to prescribe anything he/she feels is appropriate. Although even drugs that supposedly slow down the rate of decline are minimally effective at best. The problem with dementia is that there is no cure or treatment. I concur with the other advice though, keep her as healthy as possible otherwise.
I honestly don't know about drugs that can delay this. You can certainly go to the doctors but I can't tell you that a certain type of drug works (and it's different in every patient). As far as I know, you can't really delay Alzheimer's. It's just going to happen. You can make the progression as best as possible for them. 

There's going to be effects like sundowning and lack of sleep or crankiness and frustration as she loses everything and doctors might proscribe anti-anxiety or sleeping meds but that just hits the symptoms and results of alz versus Alz itself. Sorry. It's a shitty disease. :(
She's currently taking an anti-depressant, risperidona, and memantine. I have no way of knowing if they are helping or not, because everyone's journey is different.

My main concern is to try to make her laugh every day. Change her diapers when I sense they need changing. Generally try to keep her as happy as I can every day. She may have lost the ability to remember and to process thoughts, but she loves music, and likes to laugh at my stupid dad jokes.

Does your mom have a neurologist, and if so, are you able to accompany her to her visits?
Yes! My mom used to be a very healthy eater and now she has a the palette of a 5 year old. She loves sweet foods, juices, and sodas if given free reign and puts honey on everything to sweeten it if she can. 

I wish you could really intervene because someone has to and they really need the utmost care! They can't express what they're feeling anymore and will turn into frustration, anxiety, aggression, and more. Instead of saying they are hungry or they need to pee or poop, they will just cry or yell and they need lots of attention so their needs are met! I wish you the best! 
Yes, I've noticed that shes responded surprisingly well to music; she remembers lyrics really well to old music!!!
You're a great man. Thank you for this advice. Shes been referred to one but have not had an appointment yet. I will be with her when we go
