It could just be stress.  Does he still work?  Sometimes stress can result in some of these behaviors.  Does he drive?  How does he do with getting to and from common places.  

Has he gotten lost?   Does he often leave the stove on?  Does he primarily do just one thing - like watch TV?  

It could be depression too.  

It seems a bit early to intervene, but if you are concerned you might have a chat with you mom to let her know you are concerned.  Maybe not mention dementia - but just mention behaviors and see what she offers back.
Is his handwriting a lot worse than before? 
These certainly could be, but there is no way to prescribe the problem yourself. Has anyone else in your family noticed this behavior? Have you shared it with anyone? Having someone who is a little older and able to do more aware of the situation could be a big help.
could be a combination of alcoholism, vitamin deficiency from alcoholism, sleep-deprivation, and/or depression.
Maybe it’s time to speak up. It could be other problems as well. Sounds like he needs help. 
He might be forgetting things because stressed and not getting enough sleep. Do you feel able to ask him about this? 
Hmmm sounds tough for your mother.
I know youre 13 and i'm so sorry. But insist with your mom/someone for him to take vitamin b complex, specifically vitamin B1. My mom has alcoholic dementia and it stems from that. Poor diet + alcohol (blocks vitamin b1 - b1 transforms sugars in food into glucose for the brain to run on) means very little food for the brain. Who can argue against vitamins? 
Everything u said in the first paragraph is pretty much what he does, he doesn’t do most in the second paragraph but mainly he only works and drink Guinness 
No one has said anything nor have I said anything yet
Ye I’ll try to bring it up
Well he is constantly getting up at 5 am twice a week for work until 9
Yeah there getting a divorce 
Could also be alcoholism if his current hobbies are limited to Guinness and arguing with your mom.
Sounds like early dementia to me, but also, possibly hypertension, that can put a strain on someone's temper. But I'm not a doctor and i don't know your dad too well. A lot of conditions can look like dementia. Could definately be dementia but also could be something else causing mood changes and loss in memory. In any case it sounds very hard for you all. I wish yiu all the best. A doctor or psychiatrist could definitely help in givibg advice.
