I'm with you on this. There aren't enough resources to give proper attention and care to people LIVING with this disease. 

I honestly think that's why I'm an Alzheimer's advocate because we're all for finding a cure but a person with Alz can live a LONG time. My mother has early onset and she's only 62 (started seeing signs at age 49 and she's been living with it for almost 15 years now). It's REALLY rough on my father who's her sole caregiver and honestly, it's like having an autistic child - it takes a whole village or a team with enough knowledge and skill to help take care of someone. 

I'm advocating for a lot of support and care for people with this disease because of how devastating it is. We need funding and disability and a strong community for this. People with mild and late stages need one on one care eventually. 

My father smokes weed to deal (it's legal where he is) and that's how he copes. 

In terms of dealing with aggression on your FIL - we have to find what makes him tick and deal with it appropriately. They're aggressive because they're scared and don't feel secure - it's like a child. Do you take care of him in terms of keeping him warm (or cool), feeding him regularly, making sure he goes to the bathroom frequently? They also need hugs, patience, lots of kindness, reassurance, and hand-holding to feel secure/safe. I feel like aggression comes from being scared and frustrated b/c they can't express themselves with what they need. Their arm hurts but they can't say why. They're hungry but don't know how to tell you they're hungry. If you take care of basic needs first, you can find out what's making them upset. As long as they feel like they can trust you, their mood lifts. 

Also - ALZ people have big feelings and pick up on emotions with people around them. If you're feeling angry, they'll pick up on it and react. If you're joyful and fun, they're joyful and fun. I find music helps as well. 
I agree with u/Amrick about the causes of aggression. My wife went through a period of aggression, but now expresses her incoherence or frustrations by laughing at inappropriate times. I guess that's better, but it's still a bit worrying to me. Ironically, or perhaps sadly, caring for her in the mid-term of this disease only got better when the disease got worse.

I applaud you and your husband for taking up the burdensome task of caring for someone with this terrible disease. I hope you and your husband, and of course your father in law can find a temporary stasis where everybody can feel at peace, or at least not daily stressed out.
My dad would go jogging every morning for thirty minutes and also have a beer a day. Mum needed 24 7 Care already and he was the sole carer s it was really tough. She got diagnosed by 50 and died by 62.
Providing respite for someone with dementia is very difficult. To take care of someone living with dementia you really need to know the person. And typical respite stays are too short for the staff to get to know the individual.  This is often why many places will not do respite for people living with dementia.  It is like an expectation to fail.

Another option is to get a private duty care giver to come into the home. It may or may not be more expensive, this is really regionally specific.  That way they can form a relationship with your FIL.

Full disclosure: I run a dementia support assisted living.  Placing your FIL in a community that specializes in dementia care is not giving up. You are not abandoning your father.  You are changing your relationship and getting him (and you) the support you need.  I'm a professional dementia caregiver and I cannot imagine how hard it must be for you and your husband to take care of him 24/7.
