If she’s on Medicare it provides coverage for care in a “Skilled Nursing Facility,” which is basically a short-term “rehab” facility, which may be stand-alone or attached to a long-term nursing home. There are different levels of care offered by different facilities, either “acute care,” or “sub-acute care.” Acute care is usually for things that require a more intensive regimen of physical therapy and/or occupational therapy. Sub-acute care can include medication delivery, among other services, but it’s usually for IV medications not oral. 

The general requirement for these services is that the patient requires “skilled nursing care,” or some other highly skilled care and usually a certain amount of it. [Here is a page on the requirements and coverage.](https://www.medicare.gov/coverage/skilled-nursing-facility-snf-care)

Whether she meets the standards for this level of care depends on how the doctor writes the order. I would speak to the doctor and describe the way you believe her “combination” of medical issues requires a stay in a skilled nursing facility for her medication management. Let them know about her living arrangements and how she will be alone and can’t afford private care.

If they don’t think her needs rise to the level of need for a skilled nursing facility, they can say she needs [home health services](https://www.medicare.gov/coverage/home-health-services), and Medicare should cover that, but not if she needs it every day. Again, focus on the fact that her “combination of conditions” requires it, and that she’s likely to be in danger of medication overdose if it’s not monitored and that she lives alone and you can’t be there all of the time. Hospitals get tracked for how many return visits patients have after surgeries, and they want to avoid that because it gives them a bad rating with Medicare, so you could say something like, “I don’t want her to end up back here after a few days because she accidentally doubled up on her pain meds or because she wasn’t taking them and her pain becomes unmanaged.”

For some people, their dementia symptoms will increase after having been under anesthesia. They usually give dementia patients a different mix of anesthesia because of that, but they can still have additional disorientation. 

However, if for some reason you still can’t get these services for her, don’t panic. There are private home health care agencies that you can hire on a per hour basis. They usually have restrictions on which of their caregivers are qualified to give out medications (I think they have to be nurses, whose hourly rate are more expensive than an “aide.”) You can ask the hospital social worker for some recommendations, and then give them a call to see what they can offer. I don’t know if this is something your Mom can afford, but if she can, it’s a lot cheaper than paying to be in a skilled nursing facility.

I’ve had a bunch of experience with this because my sister-in-law has had MS since she was relatively young, and has had many hospital stays that required skilled nursing care after. If you have any other questions, I can try to answer them if I’m able. I’ve found a good place to ask these kinds of questions is [on a forum called AgingCare](https://www.agingcare.com/caregiver-forum).

Edit: whoops, didn’t see your update. Maybe this info will be useful in the future. Best of luck to you and your Mom!
I’m glad that the short term’s sorted...wishing you the very best for the long-term.
If she’s on Medicare, can home health services come visit her daily?
If she's been in the hospital for 4+ days, she can be referred directly to a skilled nursing facility, which will be covered by Medicare for 20 days after her release from the hospital.  Needing to get her medicine regularly and having dementia should meet the medical needs requirement.

We did exactly this when my mom had a burn that landed her in hospital last spring.  The dressing needed changing twice a day, which met the needs requirement.

If you talk to the social worker at the hospital, they should be able to make all the arrangements.  You need to know which skilled nursing facility you want her to go to.
There are timed medicine dispansors that you can buy. Full the dispenser,  set an alarm, and at that time it will dispense the medicine and an alarm will sound only stopping one the medicine is taken. I will look for the link for this product. 
You can hire a private duty caregiver to come by at times you cannot be there. Additionally, you can lock the medications up.  

Unfortunately, these are short term fixes. You should start planning, immediately, for a long term solution.
is Medicare American or Canadian?
The other piece is also to advocate questioning the reason for continue use of the narcotic or can at least a trial to wean off narcotics be attempted. In general, post-surgical pain can usually be weaned down to Tylenol 3-7 days. With lots going on, this can get missed to even question why a loved one is on a certain drug, especially if preventing getting your mom home. 

Unfortunately, you all were right that your mom needed more help and wound back in the hospital. Hoping you are transitioning to rehab and home soon.  Definitely always consult Medicare guidelines online - people - even professionals will often misspeak about the guidelines. Not their fault because the rules are always changing - so it’s best to try to do your own research. 

One more thing, if your mom is still needing pain management, is realize there are LOTS of options in managing it. From 24 hr patches to creams to injections...lay out the issue to provider what you are up against to explore other ways. Often these are not suggested because sometimes require insurance authorization or an extra step.  It silently kills me when providers suggest assisted living when faced with these questions and issues - they have no idea how expensive they are to families. 
Wow! This was a perfect response and would have taught me exactly what i needed to know if our hand wasnt forced. You're great and people like you give me hope to get through this!
Yes! Skilled nursing facility! I just used one with my Gram with dementia and it helped so much before bringing her home!
Thank you friend!
Thanks for the reply. We were surprised when it was only once a day .... like how is the middle of the night going to work & were scared of her OD'ing on them.  This is all new to us so working through the kinks.

&#x200B;

I guess thankfully, we have a short term figured out for now. She wound up messing with her surgical area too much screwing up her sling/bandages and compromised the surgery so she's being doctor ordered to stay in the hospital 3 more nights and then to a nursing home to keep an eye on her.
American
Glad to pass along what I have learned. You *will* get through this! 
Excellent.  Not the injury, but the solution.
