Don't feel guilty, it is for your dad's benefit and safety. 

My mom just lost her battle to dementia two weekends ago. Police had to come out, take her to a psych hospital and then taken to a personal care home afterwards. She just wanted to go home but couldn't. It was hard as hell to go through all of that four years ago. 

My advice is to spend as much time as possible with him while you still can. Make sure his quality of life is the best you can provide. If your father can still speak, record those interactions and bring your mom around. 
Just spend as much time with him as possible. Keep talking, keep him interested, adapt to his changes.

Don't forget to treat yourself kindly, its a sickening change and you deserve to unwind. 
Your dad needs to be in a safe home. And now he is. You can only do your best and your best is to make sure both your parents are safe. 

It happens far quicker than we imagine! 

Perhaps therapy may help you over this bump. Take care of yourself because in the long run that will help your folks. 
I was a caregiver for my grandma for the last 7 years, I felt bad we had to put her in a facility as well. I felt guilty all 7 of those years because it was like I abandoned her, so I visited as much as I could but I scarificed my emotional and physical health in the process. 

My advice to you is make sure they're taking good care of your father. Visit frequently, get to know the people who are taking care of him but also make sure you note anything you feel needs to addressed. Some facilities only do the bare minimum, especially if they don't get visitors. Always fight for his best interests and trust your gut. Tell him how much you love him each time you see him and thank him frequently. Cherish the time you spend with him and try to make it a quality visit each time. This helped me a lot in dealing with the guilt. 

Best of luck you and your dad. 
My dad was detained under the mental health act (UK) last month too. I kept him at home as long I could. No guilt. He's in great hands. 
