If you already have her power of attorney, you can request her bank account info and be added to her accounts. Then you get her  checkbook, debit cards and make sure she cannot purchase anything without your consent. 
Start having the bills and bank statements sent to your address. We did this a little at a time as we could get our hands on the bills. 
Or you just give her cash to use. And do direct debits for bills.
You can also talk to a lawyer to set up a fund so you don't have the stress from paying her bills. Help with opening an account for her recreational spending or a rainy day fund.
Make sure the POA covers financial. My mother in law had one with my sister in law for only the sale of her house. She tried to use it for more and go into legal problems. 
It was very stressful to pay all the bills online for my mom - it must be years since she's been to a bank the last time to pay bills - so, I offered to do it for her. I'm pretty sure that she doesn't even remember how to do it anymore. 

Then I started to do more and more of her shopping because she couldn't drive anymore. So, one day I suggested that I'll have her credit card from then on unless she wants it back for some reason. For occasional purchases I promised to make certain she'll always have enough cash in her purse (which has meant about 60-70€, a little more in dollars). At first she asked the credit card back a couple of times, but after a few months it was the new normal that she didn't have the card but cash instead.


[deleted]
You could also just fill out a change of address form at the post office. Ended up having to do this because dad would lose the Bill's as they came in.
There are durable and non durable POAs. You need the durable kind. 
Give her access to a joint account that you can out a little money in at a time.  Enough that she doesn't feel like a child but not enough to hurt you financially.
I got my dad a prepaid debit card with his photo on it. We have a fiduciary pay all his bills and re-load his card, although we did have to open him a new checking account at a different bank because sometimes he would go down to the bank and withdraw a bunch of money. a small cash allowance may also be necessary if she's not comfortable using a debit card for everything.
I had to take my dad to court to become his conservator because POA wasn’t working - he would forget that I was taking care of things, or worse, he’d change his mind every day, several times a day about me handling his affairs. The lawyer advised that chances of me winning were only 50/50 without an evaluation from a doctor, so I had to wait until that happened before filing.

You’ll need a lawyer to become conservator. If you don’t have the money, you can have your moms estate reimburse you for court fees once the decision has been made. 

Get legal advice ASAP.
I did this. The bank statements were NOT forwarded.
We had to write a letter saying to change the address on the account and go into a bank (my bank) to get it notarized. It took a long time because he would get confused and ask why he had to sign anything, have it explained and then, as he was starting to sign the letter, he would ask all over again. I won't forget that afternoon for a long time - I'm sure the notary won't forget that painful 45 minutes either.
[deleted]
May I ask what state you're in?  I am about to go through this in New York.

Might want to apply for "representative payee" for Social Security for her, also
I’m in Virginia. If she is willing to comply with you taking care of things, the power of attorney will be sufficient. It just wasn’t sufficient for me because my father continue to make erratic transactions, withdrawals and deposits the same day, paying the same bills twice, etc. 
Power of attorney is much more simple, as conservator, aside from going through the court system to obtain conservatorship, it takes a lot of paperwork to transfer things over instead of just a simple change of address, you have to post bond, you must become qualified with circuit court, and you will submit accountings every year to the commissioner of accounts. It all sounds like a lot, but after a year you get to know the routine and it isn’t at all confusing. I started doing this at age 30. And you are also allowed to consult with a CPA or attorney regarding these accountings, and the estate will pay for them, not you, personally. I hope this helps.
We went through this with my MIL. When you request this, you must get a new bank account setup for this. The first check will be mailed this way so you have the account setup. 

SS will give you the information for how the account must be listed. The banks understand this and will do it. We deposited her other checks in the account with no problem. Since she was a servere case, we was not a signer on the account. 
May I pm you?  I really appreciate your reply.
Of course!
