1. About 20 years ago I saw in the news that there would be a cure for Alzheimer's in 25 years. 

So really, when do experts predict a cure would be available a. In clinical trials (specify phase), b. To the general public and c. To the general public and be accepted enough to be covered by insurance?

2. Do you think there will be any personalized medicine/ genetic component to treatment? 

3. What things can people do now (and what do you experts actually do) to help reduce risk of dementia/Alzheimer's personally?

4. What can people do to help with funding and legislation for dementia/Alzheimer's? How is your research funded? Do you work for a pharmaceutical company? What should we watch for in terms of conflicts of interest when we read about Alzheimer's research in the news?

5. How can people decide what alzheimers/dementia non-profit to donate to/volunteer with? How do they know their effort is not being wasted?

6. Why should teens and young adults care about Alzheimer's? What are their prospects for avoiding or getting treatment as they get older?

7. How do they feel about changing definitions of Alzheimer's? What influnces those changes? 

8. Overviews of the different theories / models of Alzheimer's? Pros/cons for each? 

That's all I can think of for now. Haha maybe I'll have more later

1. flickering light to stimulate microglia activity, what's the deal now?
2. can't remember ... cbf, ultrasound or magnetic theraphy..... to again stimulate microglia activity, what's the deal now?
3. what happens when the blood brain barrier is broken, how would immune response act or act differently with the rest of the body's blood flowing into that region

4.what happens if you completely suppress the ab amyloid in the brain, how does the brain deal with microbial invaders?


Are there links between food intake and dementia/Alzheimer’s disease?

Is there any hope for finding a cure? Are there any promising research studies being done?
Why are so many alzheimer's sufferers forced to have health screening tests that they do not understand and which cannot offer any possible benefit to their health. Mammograms, colonoscopies, bone density studies, etc?
what medications and classes of medications seem to cause worsening symptoms/confusion/agitation among those with Alzheimers. I know that my dad responds badly to tamusolin, for example.
Thanks! These are great questions!
u/alzscience I can help with some of these Q’s if you get stuck.  This is a great set of questions no doubt. 
I’m not aware of any specific foods linked to the risk of developing dementia. In terms of general food intake; obesity, unmanaged high blood pressure, and diabetes have been shown to increase your risk of developing dementia. There is some evidence that the Mediterranean diet can slightly lower your risk for developing dementia. 

There is a lot of hope for a treatment- I, personally, don’t feel comfortable using the word cure. There’s so much research going on, it’s tough to know where to start, but AlzForum.org is a great, reputable site with updates on the latest research. 
Oo I got another question (s)

How can people be responsible consumers of research "news"? How to vet sources? What are good sites/magazines/news outlets that are good sources of Alzheimer's news or can be used to verify what they just read/saw? How do they differ from what scientists use? From what clinicians use? 

Oh one more question-blob

Why should people participate in research? In general and in whatever they are working on? How can people find out about research they can participate in? I think some don't want to because, they think it doesn't apply to them, or they are scared of procedures, or they think it's tedious, or maybe they are suspicious of the unknown. Maybe if you know some common deterrents to people participating in research you can address that? What are their rights? Does Alzheimer's research ever need non Alzheimer's participants or controls?

Lol
