I don't have any experience with this kind of situation but I wonder what the staff there has to say?? I would consider talking to APS, this is completely unacceptable.
Very unacceptable, probably due to serious understaffing.  Memory care units need at least one staff member for every five patients, because when you are dealing with people with these issues it requires constant vigilance.  
Contact your long-term care ombudsman.  Ombudsman is a Swedish term meaning 'someone who advocates for someone else."  They will check it out and come to a resolution with the nursing home facility.  

If they can't get a resolution, then they or you will contact Residential Care Services (the agency who licenses nursing homes).  

[https://www.aging.ca.gov/programs/ltcop/](https://www.aging.ca.gov/programs/ltcop/)
In dealing with my uncle, who I was guardian of, we came across this issue a number of times. Mostly it was him that was getting violent. Though sometimes it was other patients. The different places we had him at all had to have him leave, he ended up in a psychiatric Institution for the last six months because they were the only ones who could handle his outbursts and keep everybody safe. Make sure you complain to the higher-ups, but sometimes this results in both patients involved in an altercation being asked to leave.

I don’t know about the USA, but I’m the UK we would report this incident to the local council as what is called a ‘safeguarding’ an outside team comes in and assesses the risk and helps the home outs measures in place to avoid it happening again. I’m so sorry for the incident, working in a care home myself it is so common. People say understaffing is unacceptable (which it is) but more often that not, even if there is the right amount of staff there they cannot always be in the right place at the right time. It is not the other residents fault, they have no idea what they’re doing, just connect and communicate with the home and explain that they need to put measures into place to avoid it again and there will be no problem. Hope your loved one is okay!!! Xxxxx
I have seen all that. It’s worse with overcrowding, lack of supervision and activities.
Our nursing home situation here is terrible.  My mom went 8 days without a shower because she wasn't feeling well when the nurse came to give her one.  She asked for one later and was either forgotten or ignored. 
