That is incredibly sad.  Set aside a couple hours per week to spend time with him.  Choose a movie you like and share it with him.   Take him to the grocery store with you, even a short conversation with the checkout girl is a big deal for elderly.  
I only have a beginners understanding of dementia, but I know there are so many different kinda and symptoms as well. Depression is a common one. My siblings dad has dementia and they confiscated his guns almost right away. He also lives alone, and has hallucinations and forgets things. If your dad has guns take them. 

Aside from that, why Free Willy? Do you have memories of this movie? Have you asked him what he takes away from it? I think you should watch free willy with him and see what's up. 
Thanks for your response. I spend time with him every week and take him to the grocery store with me.

I am also setting him up with a service that delivers a home cooked dinner everyday.
Thank you for your thoughts. I watch with him some time before I take him to the grocery. I am one of 5 siblings, and none of us watched or liked Free Willy growing up.

He said he just watches it because it is already in the DVD player. He used to watch Netflix a few months ago before he started on the Free Willy thing. I offer to switch the TV to a different show or turn on Netflix, but he says he doesn’t mind watching Free Willy.

I am wondering if he even realizes he is watching it on repeat. 

Also, he doesn’t have guns. Thanks.
Thats really great! Even a few things here and there to brighten up his day are great. It's great that he's taking such good care of himself even in his condition. Not sure if youve already gotten this advice, but having a caregiver even a few hours a week can help give him some socialization without you having to spend a lot of time and money. Of course he might not really need that sort of help, but it came to mind when j read this. They could have some conversation with him, do his laundry, and generally make sure the house is clean. Just a thought. I wish you all the best in this difficult time.

Also, I just wanted to say, I have taken care of a few individuals who suffer from dementia and some of them watch and rewatch the same movies or shows a lot. Sometimes it seems just the backgroind noise is soothing. It's true that dementia sufferers may forget minute to minute what's going on, and so a movie watched the second time seems just as interesting as the first. I guess I want to say, it seems like you're really making an effort to keep up with your father and help him. It may not be a bad thing that he loves free willy to the point that he sees it over and over.
