I do not want to come across as insensitive, but do not worry about it too much. Early onset runs in my family as well (around 40s/50s as well) and I stress way too much when I forget a simple task even though I am way too young to show signs already.

Also, there's an effect on your brain. I am not sure what it is called. But when you already feel stressed because of your family history, you will look (un)consciously for signs that you might develop as well. So feeling stressed about not being able to do a simple task anymore is part of that. You will primarily link this to you family history, even though it may not be the case.

First of all, try not to worry too much about this. Second of all, if you do still worry and feel like this happens more often (when looking at it objectively of course), go talk to your physician. Explain your family history and get help from a doctor who can comfort you probably way more than a random stranger on the internet can.

If you ever feel the need to talk to someone about early onset Alzheimers on a young age, I am up.

&#x200B;

Good luck and be easy!
I watched a Ted Talk by the woman who wrote *Still Alice* and she used this comparison (I paraphrase): If you forgot where you put your keys, that's forgetfulness. If you look at your keys and can't remember what they are for, that's Alzheimer's.

In your situation, it depends what task you forgot. If you forgot how to call someone on the phone, maybe you get checked. If you forgot a formula function in excel, don't worry about it.

But also, you are not alone. When I forget how to spell something, I absolutely freak.
Thank you all for your reassurance. I know I probably over-reacted and I feel better again today. The analogy of the keys is a good one and I shall keep it in mind!
[https://nutritionfacts.org/video/treating-alzheimers-with-turmeric/](https://nutritionfacts.org/video/treating-alzheimers-with-turmeric/)

turmeric is best absorbed when taken with pipperine and sources of health, unsaturated fats, such as flaxseeds and algal oil 
You might take a look at apoe4.info and implement some or all of the Bredesen protocol. Do you know your Apoe4 status?
Like other posters have mentioned, don't sweat it.

Stress and lack of sleep can cause cognitive issues.   I had something similar when my laptop kept making noise. I had been camping, and I'll do email on my laptop and sync at a libraries Wifi.   To add to my frustration my service dog had barked at a library patron. 

My first laptop had a volume slider, and I was looking for that slider. I don't think any laptop after built after 1992 had sliders! Yes, here I was looking for a slider on a Win10 machine. 

  


Thank you. I know I worry more about this because of my family history. I think I just got a fright.

I’ll keep an eye on things and will certainly visit my doctor if I’m worried. 
Thank you for taking the time to reply. 
Happens to most people at some point. Not to worry 
