I don’t want to scare you but I would talk to his doctor right away. Suddenly forgetting how to swallow can quickly bring severe decline in ALZ. The doctor will probably tell you to do a soft foods/liquid diet and to always be monitoring while he eats to reduce choking hazard. Alzheimer’s is weird, he may “remember” how to swallow again and you just have to diligent about not letting him choke in the meantime. 
You should also have him checked for a urinary tract infection. It seems unrelated but a UTI can similarly cause sudden severe decline in ALZ. 
Ask your Dr for a referral to a speech pathologist.  I know that doesn't sound right, but they are the professionals who do swallow evaluations.  They will check your dad while eating and drinking various consistencies and sometimes even use an imaging tool.  It is important to have this done ASAP, as aspiration (inhaling food or beverages into the lungs, causing infection,) is one of the leading cause of death in Alzheimer's.
Im not trying to make you nervous, but before I retired, I worked for people w/ special needs  & it was my responsibility to have everyone in the group home tested.  Please feel free to message me of I can be of any more assistance. (Ps: I "retired" to care for my dad recently dx with Parkinson's and Alzheimer's)

Is he on any medications that have "anticholinergic" side effects? They are a common cause of "dysphagia" (difficulty swallowing) in elderly patients. Please let his physician know right away.
Signed,
a physician
keep a cup of SMALL ice chips around to give your dad frequently to keep him hydrated while you figure this out....
Definitely, and always have backups for days that he forgets swallowing, even after remembering. Soft foods you don't really need to chew, keep a food processor and broth handy, and a flo-trol cup or two, he may feel weird or isolated using one so if you're eating with him, have one for yourself as well.
Always a good thing to do with elderly patients exhibiting new behaviors.  
I knew the anticholinergic drugs affect the brain, brain 'fog' and over prolonged used even reduced brain volume reported.  I took my dad's benadryl and OTC cold meds away and they're not in my house at all now. But, the dysphagia is something I didn't know about.  This list of side effects makes me wonder about what exactly the FDA is doing for us.
And thick-it or gelatin to slightly thicken the drinks to help limit choking. Choking on fluids can be really dangerous because it can get into the lungs and cause pneumonia.
