Yes they would. 

Caregiving, regardless of location or circumstance, is an emotional and mental rollercoaster that needs an outlet. There are already a good number of "professional" caregivers in clinical settings, as well as in home settings. 

You can provide a different viewpoint, you have a bit of distance from the people you serve, and see a greater variety of issues. Your insight for others can be invaluable. 

But not only can you provide insight, you can also seek advice from others, and vent when you need to. 

Welcome to our dysfunctional family.
My parents are in Assisted Living with moderate dementia.  What would you like us family members to know, that we often don't realize?
Hello. Thank you for sharing. I'm also a caregiver that works in an assisted and independent facility. I'm pretty new there, also been trying to find post of caregiver that work in facilities. I like this subreddit, but would also like to hear others that I can relate to. Hello there.
Thank you! I hope I can be a good resource for others here! 
I'm a professional caregiver! In home right now, I'm a per diem at a facility. This is the first time I've found posts from our kind on reddit.
Just be willing to accept reality. I see a lot of family members in denial about their loved ones condition. As the disease progresses, changes can happen seemingly overnight. Sometimes family members will flat out say to me, "the nurse said they did (a behavior) but I don't believe them because my parent never did that before"

Also, even if someones dementia is advanced, always try to visit as much as you can. It's really depressing that some people don't ever get visitors. Even if they don't know who you are- come anyway. 


Hi! Feel free to dm me with any questions or if you just wanna chat about caregiving! 
There have been a couple here and there. 

I wanted to make it clear that all caregivers are welcome, family and institutional. We can learn a lot from one another. 
Thank you. I will.
That's true
