My advice would be to look for the ammunition.....let her keep her guns so you don't have to fight that battle, but no bullets.  It's just like when you disable a vehicle for a person that refuses to give up driving...
Do you have a knowledgeable friend who would be able to help? I once had to secure a family member's handgun and since I have no idea what I'm doing, I asked a friend who used to work at a shooting range for help. You could also see about rendering them inoperable by removing the firing pins in addition to taking away ammunition.

If you can talk to her doctor without her knowledge, you may be able to get an order to have the sheriff or police come pick them up while she's out of the house, perhaps on some long outing she might appreciate.
My mother is refusing to accept help, so we’re going for guardianship. Unfortunately that requires lawyers and is expensive. I don’t know what people do if they can’t afford this. 
I found this and hope it can be of help to you
https://www.aplaceformom.com/blog/guns-and-the-senior-with-dementia/
I'm not the best about the Alzheimer's part but let me ask some questions that may help you go in the right direction.  You don't have to answer in the post but just thinking about them may help. 

Note: Don't touch any guns you aren't familiar with. It you must handle a gun to keep it away from her keep it pointed in a safe direction (if you're in her home there isn't much in a house that will stop a bullet) and your fingers away from the trigger at all times. Treat every gun like it's loaded. 






1) what type of guns does she have? I mean are they pistols, rifles, shotguns or some combination of those? 








2) Check your local and state gun laws. If she has pistol most states require a permit, going to the issuing agency with a diagnosis of a mental issues could easily be grounds for revocation. Some states with stricter gun laws require permits for long guns and ammo it will depend on where she lives. 








3) Do you know someone with a gun safe that can hold them for her? You can buy her one have her out the guns in and then not tell her the combo. It's crappy but a safer option. 





4)  Presume there are guns she isn't telling you about.






5) The ammo thing is a good idea but if they're already loaded then it won't matter. 



Edit- for crappy spacing on mobile. 
Maybe find someone with a metal detector to help find the ammunition, if she's hiding things in boxes of clothes?
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
I love this idea.
Basically refusing to give anyone the legal ability to manage her affairs so we can get her into care. We can’t find a POA or Health Care Proxy, so right now my sister and I are fronting the cost of an aide to spend the day plus social workers to make sure she gets to doctor’s appointments and so on. We live a thousand miles away so we want to move her closer to us. 

She doesn’t know what day it is and can’t figure out grocery shopping or how to pay her bills. It’s a mess but she’s very resistant to help. 
It's so difficult- you want to keep everyone safe but your loved one is an adult and not a toddler.  It's easier to deal with toddler safety latches and saying a firm "no".

I'd be uneasy too, not knowing if there was a loaded gun hiding when you go to clean out a box or drawer.   Do you have a gun store/firing range nearby?  I'm wondering if one of the instructors would be able to give you advice or assist you.
You can buy pretty cheap ones that should be enough to keep her out of them. You might consider taking a class on gun safety too. You don't have to agree with "gun culture" to at least learn how to safely handle one.  It can be as little as a day at a local gun shop. 
