I'll have to think about ideas, but I do want to air a pet peeve I have with some YouTubers. There's no way late stage Alzheimers patients can give informed consent.

So I think that a good starting point would be with patients who are aware enough to give informed consent.
A documentary on the struggles to find and financially afford good care inside or outside the home, families having to divest or spend down the things the patient worked hard their whole lives to build, fighting with insurance companies and Medicare/Medicaid, etc. Would be good, informative, and have the potential to make a difference for people. Twitter user @mattbc is a healthcare lawyer who represents some of his own loved ones who have dementia and live in nursing homes and is a true expert on Medicare/Medicaid and insurance issues.
I would love a section on practical tips in day-to-day care:  how to get them to shower regularly, how to help them realize they ARE at home and do not have to pack up and "go home", some kind of activity that would help with her need to be constantly up and "busy".....
There is so much to tell. Oh my I am 56f caretaking for my 62m husband. This has been going on for the past three years with medication five years total with the first two years being in a state of shock about what this disease is doing to us and to our family. 
I had to take over the finances immediately and then figure out how to be prepared for a financial fall out
My husband loses his engineering job with honeywell jet engines and he loses all the disability benefits because he couldnt get a diagnosis from a doctor when he was 57. Docs cannot give such a diagnosis because it is a total loss type of diagnosis—no cure. It falls into a category much like autism where they can only watch for decline and take no preventative measures.  The set up for this disease sucks on so many levels and leaves the spouse in fact watching their spouse die little by little and day by day without much of any help. But it sure felt like honeywell and cigna spared themselves the bullet those brave SOB’s

Then lets go on here to a now 56 year old mother of eight five grown up children who is left essentially alone without the proper sentiments of marriage and the two people facing the world together with strength and love. What the spouse has to realize is her life too begins to die little by little and day by day also. As my husbands range and experience of life becomes smaller so does mine. 

There you have an interesting fresh unique glance into the life of ALZHIEMER’s Hell


