I never said anything at all. I couldn't see the point, since there was nothing he could do about it. I became quite good at dancing around it. When he asked the same question a hundred times, I would answer like it was the first time, every time. When I got him his dementia clock, I said, "This is so you don't have to fetch your glasses every time you want to know what time it is." When I saw he was becoming unable to follow movie plots, I slowly transitioned to sports, news, and game shows. When the doctor had his drivers license revoked, I said, "Oh, there was that fainting spell. The doctor is worried that you might have one while driving." When he became unable to shave properly, I helped him and said, "Oh I think you missed a spot — the light in here is so dim."

I'm sure that at some level he knew he had dementia, but he would have been devastated to have it out in the open. I let him save face, which at some level he probably also knew. It was a loving little dance we did together.

Off the top of my head things that may be helpful to hear-
“I’m here for you” “we are in this together” “how can I help?” 
“Are there things you want me to know?” (Like thoughts about nursing homes, quality of life, DNR orders or family history)
“Are there questions I can find the answers to”

Also look into resources like the Alzheimer’s society that he may want to check out. 

I’m not sure if this is what you are looking for though. And if the disease has progressed, be prepared he may not even remember the official diagnosis. 


You say "I am here for you and we will battle this together".  Reassure him that you have his back.  Dementia is a team sport.  I'm sorry to hear about this prognosis.
[deleted]
He never had the MRI, but his neurologist diagnosed him with "Alzheimer's-type dementia" from interviews and behavior. Early on I could see that it was painful for him to "admit" that he had memory problems, "admit" in quotes because he felt it was a failing on his part. If I thought that he could accept it as an illness and not a fault, I would have played things differently.

I wouldn't worry too much about what to say. In most cases dementia progresses so slowly that you can take it one tiny step at a time. If you are the one getting the diagnosis over the phone, perhaps you could make an appointment with his neurologist, as a family, and simply ask, "What can we expect?" 
