My mother pre-dementia was bitter,  angry,  paranoid and narcissistic.  I did not speak to her very often because it was a very painful,  strained relationship. 

Now she seems to have forgotten all the reasons she was bitter and angry. She is always in the moment and is happy and content. 

I'm just very pleased to see her for the first time in my life relaxed, carefree and happy after such a miserable life. 

Melissa
I work as a dementia  specialist care worker in a heavy dementia care home and while there's much yet to learn for me I can give you some answers. 

You're not necessarily wrong with your observations and a lot of the residents will be content and in general happy. But dementia manifests and evolves differently for everyone and there's multiple causes for it that can influence the deterioration. There have been residents of mine who for the majority of time were the most content but could have moments of panic or distress making their lives terribly frightening. Afterall dementia is one hell of a cruel disease.

Even simple and childlike happiness had its downsides that may not directly reflect on the resident's peace of mind. The lack of awareness of danger or self preservation as well as forgetting necessities like hygiene and nutrition can be rather negative without the right support. Of course that's exactly where us carers come in and what we're here to do.

I absolutely love the job I do despite how terrible a disease it is. Because of the negative aspects I described above it's my job to preserve the dignity of my residents and as a result it appears as if perhaps the illness isn't as "bad" 

They can absolutely be happy and content but the road they took to get there is devastating. They were perhaps aware of what was happening to them. Finding the medication to keep them from suffering can be quite the challenge too. Not a single case of dementia is the same and the growing awareness is so incredibly important to promote early diagnosis and treatment to keep all these negatives to their absolute minimum and less gruelling. 

I hope that some of this answers your question. I'd also like to add that I am glad to see someone even outside of frontline care be considerate and caring to those residents. Even at my work it warms me to see other departments of the home be involved with our oldies. Sometimes I find they aren't recognised enough for their own contributions. 
My grandma is a lot more openly affectionate now. She used to be very reticent to say how she felt; it was clear that she loved us through her actions, but she'd never say it. Some people might have considered her quite cold. Nowadays, she'll tell you frequently how much she loves you and how lucky she is to have you, how much she enjoys your company etc. It's the one silver lining I've found.
Even though my sister's Alzheimer's-caused hallucinations are often happy (she's happily married to an imaginary man), many of them are also scary and horrific. So although we siblings joke that at least now she's happily married, there is not one upside to even this straw we're grasping at. 
One son once told me he reflected a lot trying to understand why such a disease exists and why must his parent suffer.   He said after a lot of time passed, watching the staff taking care of his parent, he realized this disease gives purpose to others like yourself. If it wasn’t for this disease, there would be no construction on building memory care units, no nurses & social workers specializing in dementia, no place for caring folks like you to really shine with such a patient population.  This thought brought him comfort as he grappled with the terribleness of it.  Dementia gives all of us a purpose to care and understand in a different way. 
Right before her dementia began to be noticeable, my mom started to get meaner, more paranoid, isolated, etc. As the disease has advanced she's actually become a bit more relaxed and content. She still has some fits every now and then but I really hope that what you say is true, that they're mostly at peace in the advanced stages. I just remember my grandma dosed on meds and randomly crying. 

I do agree that the disease mostly affects caregivers an family members since the actual patient really doesn't understand whats going on at some point.

Thanks for sharing, this gives me some hope.
My grandmother has dementia and she’s reached the point of not knowing it’s her house anymore and doesn’t understand things you tell her, she just nods and stares blankly.  
She is miserable and depressed and definitely doesn’t have any issue reminding us of this constantly.  She was never like this before.  

HOWEVER, when she has UTI’s, the first day is chatter and happiness and joking, and even though it’s straight crazy talk, she is so so so happy and I would give anything if she could be like that all the time, even if she didn’t remember us.
 I know that doesn’t really answer your question but I love when she has UTIs lol. 
Not for me, no. 
As a carer,I've done it on and off for the last 30 years.  I've been caring for a lady for the last 2 years full time in her home, I've seen her deterioration, she's taught me to live in the moment and you learn to enjoy the moments of joy and connection even when they are fleeting. I'm seeing as she loses herself she's less agitated and aware of what's going on. I like to think it's a way of easing into death. When the time comes most people are ready. She's hardly eating and she's living in her own world, she loves music so I keep a cd playing for her. 
I think it can be a blessing for some. It certainly gives you time to prepare for their death. 
I know it may be true for some, but in my dads case I wish it was the case. Most of his days now are probably like what OP describes, but he can still get violent and loud and abusive for no reason occasionally.
I understand what you are saying.  My own husband is at a point where he flip flops; he has periods of extreme anger and paranoia, accusing me of stealing all the money from his bank account, etc. but he now has periods where he is docile and content recently, which I assume will increase with time.  But for the caregiver, it is hell.  The man I married simply is not there anymore.  His memories of our life together are gone.  What I am left with is an adult child that I must remind all day long where the bathroom is, where things are supposed to go, and worry every time I leave the house what I will find when I get home.  It sucks.
My mother's dementia was the best thing to happen to our mother-daughter relationship.

We were distant, I was bitterly resentful of her punitive, authoritarian, abusive parenting choices she made in the name of "discipline" when I was a child and a young adolescent.

She was dismayed and offended by my rejection of her high-control religion, and although she didn't completely cut off contact with me, she felt obligated to shun me socially.

But, as her dementia progressed, those barriers gradually dropped. We both found ways to forgive. She became a simpler, happier, person - able to enjoy the moment and appreciate small wonders.  I was able to love her again, and I'm grateful for those last few years with her.  It was like a beautiful sunset at the end of a stormy day.

&#x200B;

Dementia is a monster and it robs us of our intellect, our identity, and cruelly shortens our lives. I'd never wish it on anyone. And I'm terrified of developing it myself.

&#x200B;

But in the face of the inevitable, unstoppable, incurable reality of it, at least there are some small comforts to grasp  onto and enjoy  in spite of the tragedy.

&#x200B;

Perhaps there's some parallel to having a special-needs child; you find ways to celebrate the life you have, even if it's not one you would ever have chosen.
I still have my father in terms of his personality. He is the same sarcastic, funny man he always was. The idea of that changing someday hurts my heart. 
My husband was always a sweet, cheerful man, and as his dementia progressed he became even more so. Hard to say, but I think on some level he accepted his memory loss and decided, "Okay, this is who I am now." There were definitely upsides. He was hospitalized for five days with a horrific case of clostridium difficile. At discharge, he was beaming so I took his picture. Later on, when I mentioned that he had been in the hospital, he said "I was?" I showed him the picture. He said, "Well it looks like I had a good time!" 
Absolutely not. My grandma has it. I will go through this once and only once. It is a living hell. I have put extensive thought into how things could be worse and I actually can’t because that’s how horrible it is. I take an immense amount of comfort knowing that I will never do this again. If anyone else I know gets dementia, I’m going to fucking off myself. I would rather die than go through this again. 
In a word, no.
My mom's contentment goes in waves. We're currently in an upswing, so while I wouldn't say she's "happy" (that's a tall order for dementia), she is content most of the time, and awfully playful as of late. Her favorite thing is to sneak up on me and say "Boo!" Then she giggles like a schoolgirl! We are 24/7 caregivers at home. Mom is slowly moving into the final stage, but I don't she's free of dementia anguish just yet, we're just happy she's doing good for now.
Similar to your story but because of the nastiness that was my mother, I am still unable to be comfortable with my mother. 
Also I get that sometimes she’s “happy”, and it’s not that I’d rather she’d be sad, but seeing her “happiness” is much more disturbing than seeing her sadness. There are days I’d rather gauge my eyes out than see her like this. It’s a nightmare from hell 
If my mother becomes nice when she gets old I will feel the same way so don't feel bad
