You may eventually be able to shut out the dementia signs and just focus on the loving Mom that you know is in there.  The Alzheimer’s won’t make it easy to do. Focus on things like brushing her hair, or putting lotion on her hands & arms, or doing her nails.  Push her around the grounds and point out the different flowers and animals you see. In the evening, show her the moon & the stars.  Anything that you know your Mother would love. Deep down she loves to hear the sound of your voice, even if she might not understand what you’re saying. Take it one visit at a time. Stay strong, but be gentle with her.
I'm the primary caregiver to my wife, and we both live at home. We have a helper who comes in 5 days a week for 4 hours.

Early on, I felt emotionally bruised by her condition, but over time, I have come to accept it. It's just life.

Lately, she taken to telling me "te amo" multiple times a day, which to me, is a blessing.

I agree with /u/BlackieT. Your mom is still there. Remembering and responding to her on an emotional level might be the best approach.
It gets a little easier if you can find some small bits of humor in things as you go along, and if you can make yourself stop walking on eggshells around her -  because that will only increase your inner stress.  When our loved one was getting a lot worse, family members were hesitant to acknowledge the obvious and cringed when he did/said "off the wall" things.  But we got to where we could smile or laugh at the situations (NEVER AT HIM!!) and it made things a little easier / lighter....
My mom is the funniest of people even when she can't figure out the words.  I know she is still in there and I get a least a few reminders a week. 
Personally,  it is really hard to watch someone you love more than anything decline. I have to focus on the positive and not on the long term as we watch her decline. 
As caregivers,  we grieve the loss of our loved ones everyday. It doesn't get easier,  but you have to focus on the time you have left. 
Listening to music that they love always brings a smile to my face. Do that often.  
Also, talk to her doctor about her anxiety as you may need to have them change the medication.  I saw a huge improvement in my mom's cognition when her anxiety was relived.  
Thank you, I'm glad to hear that. I just try to take those brief nice moments while I can and savor them. I'm happy to hear it gets a bit easier. All the best to you and your wife.
