💜 
And I will add that she is at a point where we know one day she will start refusing to eat and that will be the beginning of the end. That time is closer than we know, Im sure.
She is unhappy at times, and cannot at all speak or recognize us or things or common sense things. She cant do anything for herself and does not know what is going on around her. She fights us trying to do the things we do everyday..., just helping get her up, move her, feed her, clean her, all of it. 
Its horrible the progression and loss of the mind. I fucking hate it.
No man, no its not horrible to feel like that. Especially if you knew what they were like before, and know that they might probably agree with you.

Of course it can be impossible to know how they feel at that moment. But as callous as it seems for people to want to honor any fleeting hypothetical "theyed want to live" and "they seem happy" moments, its equally callous to pretend they never feel the opposite trapped in their Alzheimer's worlds. :p

And i would think its natural for you, as someone who cares for her, to wonder sometimes about it,  then feel guilty about it enough to ask strangers on the internet for validation. And youre really not the only one whos wondered about this kind of thing:

https://www.acsh.org/news/2018/08/18/should-alzheimers-patients-have-right-choose-physician-assisted-suicide-12944

I wondered about it all the time with my dad and grandma. But ill never know for sure. You might never either. Because yes, Alzheimer's fucking sucks.

Anyway, dont beat your self up about it.
   
Thank u
and how do you know if she's suffering? she can't talk, not aware of the surroundings, you see her you feel bad for her and thinks she's suffering. is she in pain? is she feeling miserable? or do you think she is?

is it not possible she actually don't feel miserable or sad?

can't you be more positive?

even if you talk to her and seems she doesn't know what you are talking to how sure are you that your words & actions has no impact on her? maybe she understands but lack the ability to show that she understands?

so people who lacked certain abilities should just "Go"? is that what people call  "useless eater" in the show called "Man In The High Castle"?
Thank you. Eloquently said. Here with Dad and Mom now...., she isn’t doing well and hospice has been coming the last few days. They say she will probably let go in the next day or so.
While I appreciate the spirit of what youre getting at, I will assume that you havent dealt with this yourself.
Before she couldnt speak, after her diagnosis, she was severely depressed and knew exactly what was coming. She didnt want to be like this and would rather have gone out the way she wanted.
Is she suffering? In the main sense of the word, no, probably not. However she didnt want to live like this or burden her family the way it is. 
We of course do the best we can. We still talk to her and hope some of it gets through, and we take great care of her.
Do I want her to be dead? Of course not, so dont get it twisted up. But do I feel that if she knew the way she was that she would want to be this way? Of course not! She had her pride and loved a full life and was a wonderful mother.
So do I wish for her to be at peace? Yes, yes I do. Will I miss her terribly? Yes, yes I will.
If it were me, and there is a good chance someday it might be, I will not burden my family to take care of me and I will have a plan to take care of it so they dont have the uneding burden of everything my dad is having to go through right now. Its taxing his health and emotionally its very difficult.

Again, I appreciate what you are getting at, but shame on you for somehow trying to shame me for feeling the way I do. I think many caretakers of late stage Alz patients feel the same way, not because they dont WANT to care for them, but because they know that living like this isnt really living. And yes I want my mom to be at peace, restful, not agitated and upset about nothing, or unable to look in a mirror and see herself and think there is a stranger staring back at her, or hallucinating, or unable to recognize anyone around her, or unable to wash herself or use the bathroom herself with others wiping and cleaning her. She wouldnt want it now, didnt want that when she knew that was coming, and I dont want it for her either. I respect her desires, in so much as what she could express when she was actually able to.
I wish you luck with a peaceful end to this and i hope you dont feel so guilty over any sense of relief. A lot of times, i think, there must not have been any really clear good answers.. Take care. :)
well we still don't know if right now she is depressed or not. because she felt that way before she's gotten worse doesn't mean now she feels the same. so it's possible she still feels depressed and don't want to live, but at the same time it's also possible she doesn't feel this way anymore.

but you are taking it the -ve way.

and sorry i don't mean you don't care for them. just you have your own beliefs in the patient's condition & wishes, when you yourself are that clear about it at the moment.
Well again, I appreciate it but I didnt really post it to be slapped on the wrist or corrected. Its how I feel and knowing my mother (which you certainly dont), I know how she felt. 
then end the misery. if you think it's the right thing to do. i believe if she was clear that she wanted it all to end while she was still sound minded, one should respect their decision.
Its not something that can be done at this point. She does not live in a state where that is allowed legally and that wasnt what I was asking for. I wish nature would stop playing cruel games with her body and allow her to let go.
Her mind is gone and her body is following, we just dont know when and thats the hard part.
Hard for her and hard on all caring for her.
