Hallucinations are common in middle and advanced dementia.  Medications will fix them.
Besides seeking medication to combat the hallucinations, consider picking up the book The Validation Breakthrough by Naomi Feil.  She discusses how to address hallucinations with the dementia sufferer in order to help keep them from getting frightened. 
Sounds like a very severe and frightening hallucination. My mom would have some when they were getting her meds right (strangers shooting at the house, roaches on the wall, etc) but nothing so specific. Tell her doctor and have her meds adjusted.
It's a standard part of dementia. All you can do is reassure them and maybe walk over to the spot where they say the person is standing, move your arms around the general area saying "See? Nothing there" and often I think your physical form moving around helps block or erase the hallucination, at least temporarily. Also try to gently explain the logic of the situation. My grandad would say people were under his couch so I'd explain there's not enough physical space there. So if you sit on the edge of the bed where the "man" is and say "See, just me" that might help. Or hold the ceiling fan cord and say "See, I'm holding it so it's not moving". Tell her the front door is locked and you would never let any strangers inside the house. 

There really isn't a way to stop the hallucinations but I used to be able to temporarily "debunk" them for a while. They often just "create" new ones though.

Also make sure her medication is properly suited to her. We changed my grandad's meds and his hallucinations went away until his overall condition deteriorated (for other reasons). Explain to doctors and chemists what type of hallucinations she's having. Someone may have heard of it and know a different drug that has been known to fix them.
My sister has Alzheimer's with extremely vivid and long-lasting hallucinations. They have improved with anti-psychotic medicines. It took a while to get the correct dosage. Hope your mom's doctor can help with this. It's freaky to see and deal with -- for the patient and for the patient's family. 
[deleted]
Seroquel by any chance?
That’s ok. It won’t stop the hallucinations though, just be aware of that (well different meds might). 
