It's the disease talking, not your grandma.  Paranoia is common in dementia sufferers.  I understand that this is hurtful and that you are grieving and I'm deeply sorry for your loss. Having to deal with a delusional grandma on top of all this is cruelly unfair. Try to remember that her brain is literally broken.  Like a toddler she has no control over her thoughts and no impulse control.  The good news is that she is unlikely to remember the necklace or the accusation. 
I have a different but similar situation with my mother. She doesn't accuse me of stealing. But I stay with her when I visit from out of town and when I leave, we have a big goodbye in the parking lot of the retirement facility, she sees me load my luggage in the car, we hug, all that.  And then every time she forgets I said goodbye and accuses me days later of sneaking out without letting her know I left, and tells all our family and her friends how rude it was that I did that! 

A friend helped me come up with a script, so I can calmly run through those lines when it happens, like I'm acting a part in a play instead of taking it personally. In my case it's a matter of hearing her out, saying wow, that must have felt so frustrating, I'm so sorry, I know I said goodbye but I probably should have made it clearer I was LEAVING leaving, not just saying goodbye because I was running to the store for 5 minutes. 

It doesn't matter that I know I did say goodbye for real, or that I'm accepting guilt for a thing that didn't happen. The thing my friend helped me understand is that if I'm combative or make her defensive it will stick in her memory even more, whereas if I let her be heard, she can move on from it.

In your case, maybe you can enlist the help of your family to come up with a script. Part of that is so when it happens, you know that they are all in on it too, and you don't feel like they're wondering if you're guilty and all eyes are upon you. I'm pulling this out of thin air, but your script could be something about asking what the necklace looked like, when she got it, validating that it must be really important to her, you certainly didn't steal it but you may have been cleaning and organizing things - and accidentally misplaced it in her house and shouldn't have done that, and you are so sorry if you've upset her. (important to make sure your family understands ahead of time this didn't happen, you're just saying it to avoid straight out calling her a liar and make her feel heard)

And then ask ahead of time for the family's help to gracefully distract and change subjects, possibly call you out to the kitchen to help with cleaning, serving, etc. 
Oh, my heart goes out to you.  I cannot imagine the pain you are in right now.  The thing with your grandma is very, very common with dementia sufferers. Her brain is failing and the wiring is all wonky.  We called it "brain damage" instead of dementia in my family, because that made it easier to understand.   It will be incredibly hard for you, because our first reaction is to defend ourselves.  But you have to "grey rock" your grandma....that is, treat everything she says with the emotion of a grey rock.  Do not react, do not try and defend yourself, do not agree, just change the subject.  She says you stole the necklace, you say "tell me about when you were 10 and went to the circus!"  Or "was it this cold when you were a little girl??"  Also, MAKE SURE THAT EVERYONE THERE KNOWS SHE HAS DEMENTIA / ALZHEIMER'S.  If there is something written from the doctor, that helps the people in denial.  Because inevitably there will be one person who doesn't believe, and will take grandma's word as gospel.  If, for your own mental health, just go in the morning and leave before everyone else gets there.....but cling to the good memories of your mom and your grandma to help get you through....
I am so sorry you lost your mother and now have to deal with this painful situation.

Does the rest of the family know your grandmother's diagnosis?  If everyone isn't aware, I think it would be less painful to step back from a family gathering.    But you also need care, comfort and support right now, especially with such a sad loss during the holidays.   Is there a family member or two that can be a sort of shield for you- to perhaps guide your grandma out of the room if she starts with the unfounded accusations or distract her with some holiday activity, keeping her away from you?  

You know your family best.  And also, if being with family makes you feel better, I would definitely ask a few  trusted family members to help you out with this so you can enjoy the holiday too.
I would avoid her completely. Dementia doesn't justify abuse. 
Wow.  I am so sorry to hear about your mother. I can't even imagine.

I'm sure it's not easy, but you need to also cope with your grandma's disease and just turn the other cheek.  I'm sure that's not going to be easy, but it's the only thing to do.
If she starts up again, ask her to tell you about that necklace and why it was so important to her. That might be what stops her complaining/accusing, otherwise, if it is really missing you might want to look around antique stores for a similar replacement... My father once had a bracelet which was stolen, years ago, and when he started up about missing it (and blaming my kids) he exaggerated the size and value; when I got a silver Id bracelet for him (similar in size/weight to the original) that took care of the problem.
My brother killed himself and my father with early Alzheimer’s just kept asking for him at the funeral. It was the most incredibly fucked up experience of my life. You couldn’t write this stuff. My advice - fly off the handle! you might feel better about it just don’t hurt anybody. 
You just play the game or avoid it if you can’t handle it but you gotta make that call. My moms going thru it. Shit sucks.
