I bought those for my mom! I would just set them up as you had heard great things about these new fangled shoelaces and how they’ll make her walking shoes comfortable and easy to get on. No need to tout them as only for dementia sufferers. 
I think the gift is very thoughtful!  And it’s the thought that counts. If what you have picked out is safe for her, then I’d get them. 
Very thoughtful.... just give something she would like anyway. My mom really liked purple anything so we showered her with purple soft blankets and things like that. 
A good useful gift might be a diffuser and some lavender oil. As my mom got more progressed, that helped immensely with her at night sleeping more soundly. 
I gave my mom a clock marketed for Alzheimer's patients - it prominently displays the day of the week and whether it's morning or night along with the time. Instead of saying something like this is for you because I know you can't figure out what day it is anymore or whether it's time for breakfast or dinner, I presented it more like "I saw this and thought it was kind of cool, I'm thinking of getting one for myself too. Especially now that I'm retired, I'm having a harder time keeping track of what day it is. After you use it for a while, I'll be curious to hear if you think it's worth me getting one as well." 

That set her up as the expert who I would be looking to for advice in the future, sort of my product tester, instead of treating her like I'm giving her this because she's mentally incompetent.
Thank you, that's a perfect way of doing it. And I'm definitely the one in the family who buys all the weird cool new gadgets. Appreciate the help.
Thank you, helps ease some of the concern. Appreciate the comment.
Thank you the comment, I appreciate all the help I can get.
Thanks for sharing your experience, I appreciate the help.

&#x200B;
Sure! It brought back memories of my mom in her sensible old lady box-toe black leather shoes with hot pink spiral laces! Woo hoo, styling!
