Early signs I noticed in my dad were not being able to reason, forgetting the words for certain things, not being able to follow conversations, asking the same questions over and over. He also became much slower in speech, movement, thinking, etc

I think it would be wise to keep an eye on him and get him to a doctor.
Yes, not being able to follow conversations. 

Also driving very slowly and getting into a few fender benders - getting his driver's license taken away was important, and he said later that it was a relief because he was afraid he might kill someone by accident. 

Forgetting how to do tasks that he's done a million times before - like putting things together. 
They could very well be. With my mother it was circular conversations. She'd ask you a question, you would answer her, then a couple of minutes later she'd ask the same question again. She also repeats stories about what she did that day. Lately, her whole focus in on every ache and pain and when she has doctor's appointments. She also tells stories about things that never happened. Mom is 90 and this has been going on for a few years now but lately is much more pronounced. 
Memory issues, some mild confusion in busy social situations (in our case it was a wedding). Asking the same question over again frequently, going over things from the past that upset him
Those are points of concern. Other early signs I've seen are mood swings, repeatedly forgetting things like names or directions that the person  can normally easily recall, frequently losing objects like keys, wallet or phone (assuming they haven't always done that), and leaving chores unfinished. 

I would definitely schedule a medical appointment. Dementia aside these symptoms can be caused by a number of unrelated issues, some of which are easily treatable.  I would also quietly go over your finances and confirm that bills and taxes your husband is responsible for are up to date. 

Good luck.
Early signs for my MIL were more subtle, as she had no problem with her verbal expression. Later on we realized she was a master in confabulation. She also pushed us all away from her. The first time we noticed something was up was when she got lost in an airport. Then shortly after that she let her dog out during a snow storm, forgot about it, and the dog froze to death. She then had a UTI that caused hallucinations which led to us taking her to the ER, where she was treated for the UTI and got a dx of dementia. The UTI made the memory loss worse. We'd leave the hospital room for a minute, come back in, and she'd think we'd just arrived. Though she did stabilize once the UTI was treated, from there it just went down hill fairly rapidly. Yes repeating questions over and over again was one of the signs, albeit later. 

As for my dad, the progression and signs were different. A few years ago, my dad suddenly seemed off... most notably in recall and verbal expression. But also we noted he was unsteady on his feet, especially on one side -- he does this thing where he moves his ankle around before putting his foot down. He also gets dizzy with heights and is uneasy walking down stairs. We suspected a stroke but the doctor didn't find anything. He got frustrated and angry (he'd always been a sweetheart and slow to anger) because he couldn't recall or express things... or because we were all talking too fast for him to follow.

Flash forward a couple of years, he's not angry as much these days. His recall and verbal expression is even worse. For example he'll know who his grandkids are, but he'll struggle to be able to say their names and says the name is "stuck" in his head. Then finally he says "that woman." Provided you speak slow and clearly enough, he'll understand what you are saying and will follow, he just has a difficult time expressing himself or recalling facts figures names objects etc. He's developed the "pill rolling" tic that is common with Parkinson's and he is still unsteady on his feet on one side. He acts out his dreams in his sleep (which may be a sign of Parkinsons or could be a med side effect). He can't follow the news or read a book or watch a movie and is mostly silent but seems fairly content. He hums a lot, which seems like another tic. He also sometimes blanks out and just sits and stares with mask-like expression. He can still use the toilet, dress himself, make a simple lunch and mow the lawn, and can be left alone for a few hours. We made him stop driving a couple of years ago. He does not yet have a formal diagnosis though is on meds for Alzheimers. I'm not a doctor but reading up on things my guess is Lewey Body Dementia, though he has not appeared to have any hallucinations. 
In retrospect I think one of the first signs for us was repeating herself. She would tell a story or say whatever and then say it again 5-10 mins later and it was clear she didn’t recall the first time she said it. This was years ago, and looking back big picture I think this was the strongest first symptom. 
My mom's gift to me for my college graduation was a baby doll. I thought this was her way of saying, "you'll always be my baby girl" but really she thought I'd like it. That was six years before her early onset diagnosis at age 64. She's 70 now and we're looking for AL housing for her. 
My father started showing signs in his late 50s but they were just tiny things that felt off to me and my brother. A gut feeling in a way. The way he seemed slower in conversation and distanced himself from others. And how he seemed to lose interest in hobbies. Then he started forgetting the meaning of words like postal code and forgetting conversations. It wasn’t long after that that the snowball started rolling and he was given the diagnose at age 60.
My father got dementia at a very early age. In his 50s. The first signs were

1. He kept getting lost - he couldn't remember the directions 
2. He used to make sudden trips to far away places- he just one day left the house and got on a bus to my hometown
3. He started losing weight 
I am a health care worker and a lot of family's say their loved one would leave the stove on or get the stove and fridge mixed up, also wandering from home and not knowing the way back. 
Hand writing that went from elegant to horrible. Trying to put a stamp on an envelope- wrong place! Trouble putting keys in ignition on car. 
I would add that she is extremely forgetful. If you call her and say you are coming to visit in two hours, she has forgotten by the time you get there. Her long term memory is fine. She can recall all sorts of stories from our childhoods but the short term memory is completely shot.
Thank you for the input. I edited the post because I forgot to specify that it's my husband's father I'm concerned about. But it sounds like we need to have a chat about him. 
Second this.... father would get lost driving to places he visited for years. A big slowdown in his walking with the shuffling of feet and lack of balance becoming more and more apparent. Next was the wandering- we got calls from neighbors that he would be outside walking around in his suit and tie trying to get a ride to work. He was retired for about eight years when that started happening.

It was a pretty quick decline for my dad... one year he is at my house helping me with the lawn and some small projects around the house and the next year he is not able to remember the days of the week, the year, or directions..


