My grandfather is incontinent, cannot eat, and has mobility issues. We got 3 hours. A week.  

It’s frustrating to ask for help and receive nothing. Big hugs <3
Will Medicaid pay for a nursing home?   


Why, specifically, are you wanting in-home care if all of the above is the case? Who has been providing the care so far?
If she needs 24 hour care is it time for assisted living/ memory care unit? May be cheaper?
Each Medicaid waiver/program is different.   They have different rules, processes, and daily/weekly/monthly maximums.    You might get better results posting your state and stating which Medicaid eligibility your Mom has and hope someone here has navigated that particular program.   
My Papa is 91 with Parkinson’s-he can barely walk, can’t shower by himself or dress, can’t cook or nuke his food. We get 12 hours a week.
Not a lot of time for someone so time consuming.
There should be an ombudsman for Medicaid, maybe start there.  
Keep asking for adjustments.  Keep agitating.  They're like insurance companies: will offer you little to nothing, and if you don't make a stink, call it done and leave you in the dust.  

Be the squeaky wheel.
US?
Yes, it's ridiculous. My father only gets 12 hours a week. That's basically 2 hours for 6 days, and one day of no care. WTF. Meanwhile my mother is on alert 24/7.
She is currently in a memory care facility but we only put her there temporarily. We have always wanted to move her back home because we know she wants to come home. I don’t know how much time she has left and I want her to have as happy of an end to her life as possible. She has trouble communicating but she is still coherent enough to tell us she wants to be home. She is much happier whenever she is with family. 
This - it makes more sense for the tax payer dollars.  Ours is wonderful - spotless, nutirous meals, coordinate therapy and doctors.  Look for a small one with good management.  Ours has 6 patients who are all very well cared for and Medicaid pays 2/3 of it.  We have free access anytime.
Yes!
I understand that, most of my residents at work are the same way. Much happier when they see family, and when they get to leave to go to church or visit home. However, at some point if she continues to fall and get injured and there is no other way, it may be best for her to be in a home. 

I would never suggest a large nursing home. I would suggest something like where I work. Right now we have 12 residents, and six staff members, at my work. I think that many find comfort in having such a small staff. We get to know all the residents on a very personal level, and they recognize us. The family members get to see us and know us all by name, so I think that makes it better for the family, they know who is taking care of their loved one. If in-home care isn't an option, maybe you could find a second best situation like this? I wish you the best. 
Bless you as you deal with the final stage. Seniors, especially with dementia, define home differently. Tina needed to go home and fix dinner for her father. Ben was driving to the corner store but suddenly headed for the store of his youth 130 miles away. Ask Mom where home is and celebrate her memories with questions, old pictures of family and encouragement to enjoy her past while she stays where she is safe. Small facilities like an adult family home (6 residents) or memory care (12) will give her the best personal attention. Stuff guilt feelings in the next bag you carry out to the garbage. Visit as often as possible. She is lucky to have you.
I can understand from a Medicaid standpoint that if she really needs almost 24 hours a day, it wouldn't make any financial sense for them to offer to pay that in-home when it would be significantly cheaper for Medicaid to have her in a nursing home.  It may be that six hours of care is the maximum benefit they can offer in-home. It probably costs similar to what they would pay for 24 hour care in a nursing home.

The average number of hours staff spend one-on-one in a nursing home with each resident is around 3 hours per day, so the fact that they are offering 6 hours per day is pretty impressive when you look at it like that. It's cheaper because one staff can check on 4 patients + per day, but with in-home care, it's all one-on-one. 
I had been taking care of my mother full time during the week 24 hrs a day with my brother on the week ends.  This was good until the last month when she tried to take my car for a ride in the middle of the night. She mowed off a bush the decided to abandon ship with the car running and warning flashers on.  I woke up to find my car teetering in a bush and my mother asleep on the chair.  I asked her where she was going and her reply was “home”.  She could have killed someone on the highway but also she no longer recognized a house she lived in for over 60 years as home.  She has fallen many times and tried to escape many times.  My brother and I could no longer care for her ...our mental health was at risk because of the stress.  She made us swear never to put her in a nursing home but for her safety it was necessary.   
This is a very sweet comment. Thank you. It’s hard to know what the right think to do is and I am very scared that if I bring her home we won’t be able to provide her with the care she needs. But it’s hard because at the same time I really want to bring her home. I’m thinking about touring an adult family home as my next step in making this decision. 
I understand the state is incentivized to not give us more hours. How is it though that the state always has enough money to spend on war, but can’t seem to provide adequate care for its people? I may end up having no choice but to keep my mom in memory care, but I am going to make a fuss in hopes of getting the hours we need so she can spend the end of her life at home where she will be most comfortable and happy. 
Maybe look into hospice services at home. Usually additional help is provided throughout the week. Don’t fuss, honestly there’s not much you can do, in fact most people sit on a waiting list to get two hours of in home care services. What I’m hearing is you want your Mom to be home and comfortable...think about hospice. Try not to stress, it will only make the process worse and it’s already hard. 
