Sounds difficult... I know folks can get weepy when they have dementia at end of life but TBH dementia when they are still well enough to be up and running around and messing stuff up is when they really really drive you nuts. Like non stop peanut farm nuts. Sorry for you to go thru this. 

Do you know what the cause of the dementia was, if you are comfortable sharimg? I don't want to assume Alzheimer's since you didn't specify.

Rant away!
If its frustrating for you, imagine how terrifying and frustrating it is for your grandmother.
Oh, it's Alzheimer's. Sorry, I'm so used to using them interchangeably when talking to my family about it. She calls it her CRS (Can't Remember Shit), so that's a thing.

That's the crazy thing: she's still up and around, and she still does everything around the house. Heck, she still volunteers at the school for the Read to Grandma programs (although that might be stopping soon). But it's like...it's not her. The light is on, but nobody is home, you know?
You know, that's actually something I was just talking about with my mom. It's hard to imagine slowly forgetting everything and everyone you know and love, but it's a reality for her.
Haah i like the crs thing.. So i gotta ask: was the difficult personality stuff always there or did it come up after alzheimers diagnosis for you guys? Cuz like my grandma, she would insist or say weird things before alz anyway. But my dad got super unreasonably demanding after. Also i dont know if he ever was aware he had Alzheimers. 

And yeah he wasnt all there, but since he could confabulate or bs his way through a convo no one much outside our family knew how bad it was...so if you tried to explain (i didnt try very often) theyed say it wasnt so bad, or that he seemes fine. Like they would minimize it, as they tried to be comforting. Bleh.

Both, I guess? It's hard to explain. Before the diagnosis, she had her annoying quirks like everyone does. When she visits a family member's place, she'll start cleaning or organizing something, even if the place is spotless (she's not being rude, she just can't relax). And she can deliver a clapback like it's her job.

But after the diagnosis, it's like the disease...amplified it and added a dash of spice. The multiple questions thing was the first sign we saw of dementia. And the CRS? That's how she's able to joke about her dementia But when she visits our place, she cleans constantly. And she's started using her clapbacks to hide how much she's forgetting. (How old is my brother? Old enough to know better)

She's also started telling dirty jokes. This is the same woman who would scold us for saying 'damn', but now she'll flirt with my cousin's boyfriend at a family gathering. Totally unlike her.
My maternal grandma passed from cancer before her dementia symptoms got really noticeable.. but once I brought a boyfriend to her house and she said in front of God and everybody, "I used to like 'em big too," and thrusted her hips in her wheelchair. Another gem, "They called girls waves in the Navy. You know why? All the sea men rode us." 
Alz is a slow confusing road thru hell. :p i hope as she progresses she doesnt get too unmanageable.. I mean its hard no matter what but having an actively disruptive, destructive, offensive, or even violent person you cant contain is different from having someone who regresses into childlike sweetness (like my aunt). But yes they all suck.

I remember there was a short time when my alz dad flirted with me. It was super super awkward even though i know he didnt know who i was. I was in my 20s by then so its not as traumatizing as it could have been if i were still in hs. I think he  sometimes mistook my mom for his exwife from 40+ years prior too (none of us have ever met her).  I stopped asking him who he thought mom was after that. :p

It all sucks
>she'll start cleaning or organizing something, even if the place is spotless (she's not being rude, she just can't relax). 

sounds like she does have some anxiety which is relieved by cleaning/tidying, and triggered by things not being clean and tidy. This may be why she was upset about the kids sleeping "on the floor" - it is a common belief among some people that sleeping on the ground will make you sick, wet hair causes pneumonia, etc. Dementia has a tendency to make those long forgotten beliefs come to the surface.
I hope to be that kind of old lady some day.
