One thing is to try to distract him -- get his mind thinking about something else. So if he brings up a child outside, maybe your mom could say, "Remember when the kids were young and we played at the playground?" or anything to get his mind going in a different direction. That is sometimes impossible to do with dementia, though.  If the first distraction she brings up doesn't work, she can try another one -- "Would you like a cup of tea? Would you like some water? Let's watch some TV..." etc. Good luck!
He is having delusions that he's someone else or is hearing someone else.  These are the results of the disease preying on his mind.  Medication can moderate or end these delusions.  Talk to his doctors to find the right meds. 
Say you have to wait for someone to come to discuss something over but it won’t be until morning.  

Instead of TV, sometimes music is best.  At a certain part of the night, he thinks the people in the TV are real.   One night he panicked because some woman needed help but it was really the TV.  

Sometimes all diversions don’t work and there have been nights I slept on a chair right in front of the door.   

Edit:  I try my best to prevent a tantrum but by the time I’m guarding the door, it’s in the middle or towards the end of a tantrum.   
My father recently passed and was like this as he approached the end. One thing we did was install deadbolts that require a key on both sides so he couldn't leave without us. He may become more aggressive as the dementia progresses. Remember it's not a reflection of who your dad is/was. It's because he's so confused and can't communicate. There are medications that can help calm your dad down and make him more compliant. Have your mom ask their doctor about them. 
Have you tried music?

Most important: see that your mother gets a break so that she doesn't burn out.  

God bless~n2b  
My mom is in a memory unit at the nursing home.  When she gets obsessive thoughts the aids are working to redirect her thoughts.  She is more difficult because she had obsessive compulsive before the dementia.  You may also have your mother discuss with the doctor about medication to reduce his anxiety.  It has helped my mother a lot.  
That's another thing. He's not great at taking his meds. My mom has to catch him in a good mood...
We would tell my father in law that he asked us to bring him his vitamins (he never took vitamins). This seemed to work. But as the other poster said, they might be able to give your mom a formulation to put in his food.
We crush the pills and mix it into his applesauce.   
See if there's a formulation that can be added to food.  Also, marijuana might calm him down, make his moods better. 
good idea. I'll give it a shot.
will try this too.
lo. I thought of this. Unfortunately, he lives in NYC so no easy/legal way to get this to him. (I was thinking about gifting him some chocolates but I think my mom would never go for this).
