If she has dementia, likelihood is that she has a feeling that she has lost something but cannot actually tell you what it is. 
1. Offer her reassurance: "Grandma, I know this is really upsetting to you. I hear you. We are going to find it for you."
2. Offer a distraction: after saying 1., try a few things. Either ask her if she wants to take a break and help you do something else: make a cup of tea, help you pick some clothes, literally anything to break that cycle. Or even better, offer something to her that she likes: either an activity or food
3. Don't expect this to happen right away. If it doesn't work, walk away for a minute, come back and try again. Likelihood is that she has already forgotten you had asked.
4. Your family should access the Alzheimer Society or Assosciation to get educated about coping strategies and understand dementia in general. It will help a lot

I agree with the first post, always always agree with grandma, I know your feeling like something is lost, we want to help you, encourage her and try and distract her.
Good luck. 
It's the anxiety. It's what causes rummaging and roaming around looking for "something". Distraction is the best option.
Have you discussed this with her doctor?
Put out an envelope with money for her to find. Make a big deal out of how it’s great she found it. When it happens again, repeat.

Thank you very much for your response. I had usually tried to distract her with conversations about past happy memories or things that she did for me growing up but wasn’t as successful as I’d hoped. Your suggestion of making tea is a wonderful idea and I will try that next time this happens. 

We are currently looking into ways to get further educated on how to help her through this.

Again, thank you 
Thank you. Although it does get very difficult, we try to always agree with her. 

However, there still are things that seem to stick in her memory and I’m not quite sure what the trigger is to make it stick. On occasion, she’ll lose something and blame it on the lady that comes to clean. We have always found the object in question so I hate to agree about the cleaning lady taking anything because I’m afraid it’ll be one of those things that sticks in her memory 
Yes, we have. I’ve updated the post as well but she does have Vascular Dementia. She was diagnosed about 2 years ago 
