If there is a senior council on aging in your community, I would ask for their assistance.  

I would also start looking at care facilities nearby- and check their reviews carefully and inspect the places in person to see if the residents are clean, the meals are appetizing, etc.   They may have information for you at the facilities.

I moved my mom from out of state, although she didn't need as much care at the time.  I found the facility first, then I called to set up her Medicare insurance supplement as the one she had in her last state didn't cover her in the new one.  

My mother's was a lease with no "buy in" fees- I mailed the documents to my sister, who lived near my mother and some items needed to be notarized.

But again, I would first check for a senior council or resource center by you as they may have specific information that will help.

The move itself was fairly easy- I flew out with only a carry on bag and that allowed my mother four large suitcases to carry as much as she could back with me.   The larger items we purchased online-she got to pick out a loveseat and table- so she had some control over the matter, which was important to her- and had those items delivered to her new place before I flew out so her place was ready.  
We found an incredible adviser in our area called Senior Care Solutions (California). They were experts and helped us every step of the way, listened to our needs, and loved my parents like family. If there is a similar agency near you, give them a call. I believe they get most of their funding through deals with companies that get their referrals, but I never felt like I was being steered toward something because of a commission.

Start going to care facilities in your area. Don't just go on the tour they give you and speak with the people they assign to speak to you during the tours. Those are usually the most satisfied people or people who have connections and get better treatment. Talk to other families that are there and see the quality of care they get. I've been to a few facilities where families say they pay the aides and nurses under the table to get better care for their loved ones on top of what they pay monthly, which is illegal. Try sitting in the area for a few hours where your grandma will be to see the attention they get. I've seen patients literally with diarrhea under their wheelchair for over an hour because it wasn't their turn to have their diaper changed (this was in several facilities). Talk with their recreation coordinators to see the things they have residents doing during the day and try to get a schedule of how things pan out. Try sitting in on a meal time if you can as well. Also try to find a place that has a 5:1 ratio for patients to aides. A lot of places are understaffed and burnout is insane with aides. Also try to find out their policy on cameras and grannycams as well God forbid something bad happens. I'm only saying the negatives because no one wants to think of the bad things that can happen. I have seen absolute nightmares and complete dreams in treatment of patients in facilities.

Also look into your aunt's insurance. See what they cover and how much will have to be paid out of pocket. If you are in the states and she has Medicare, a facility won't be covered unless she has Medicaid as well. If she has a secondary besides Medicaid call up the secondary (not hospital coverage) and see what they cover as well. 

The transition can be easy peasy or difficult. 

When she is in the facility try to speak with her regular aides and nurses regularly to keep tabs on how things are going. Also keep track of her medications as well and try to keep in contact with her doctors. I have seen doctors putting patients on benzos just because the aides can't deal with them and it just ruins the patient without consulting the family or the power of attorney. Also if you notice your grandma becomes wheelchair bound, push for a two person assist with the doctor and PT in the home to make changing easier. Once she does become wheelchair bound ask to sit in during a changing session to make sure she isn't developing sores, if she is, notify a nurse and PT, because this is negligence. 

I really hate scaring you, but as I said, no one likes to think of the bad and scary things but they really want what is best for your loved one. Hope to find a place where there are people who work there that understand that they may be in that situation one day and give the care they hope to get.
When we had to make this decision we tried "They will take care of you" and similar phrases... No go. Absolutely would not even get out of the car to look at the place. 

Then a couple of weeks later we started phrasing it "They have programs to help you hold on to what you have for as long as you can." Which was not a lie.  Changed everything and they have been happily living there for several months. Not an exageration, they are no longer afraid and smile when we visit. 

I hope you and your loved ones alll are able to find peace in whatever path you take.


see if either state has a medicaid waiver or PACE program that will provide professional in home caregivers for her as an alternative to a nursing home.
My experience went smoothly as far as finding and getting my dad into a facility.  I moved my dad from out of state and in with me; while utilizing in home care services.  I then leveraged A Place For Mom to aid in the search for a facility.   I didn't end up going with their initial list of places.  But my contact provided me info that helped me ask better questions of my dad's needs.  I started doing internet research on facilities.   That was labor intensive and not as beneficial as visits to facilities and looking into records for the facility.  I was silly in the beginning and looked at stuff like Yelp reviews (face palm).  It made sense when I didn't know better.   I'd especially encourage timing your visit around meal time. My dad's facility's workers get scarce after dinner. 

To your other questions...  I had a Durable Power of Attorney in place long before; and that's all I needed for my state - and to get him established with new doctors. 

I'd encourage you to pay particular attention to policies around causes for terminating your contract (by you or them).  My dad was almost evicted after being in his facility for over a year and then had a week of resisting nurse care and then striking out at another resident.  In reviewing the nurse's record log, I would've refused service as well if you woke me from sleeping to see if I needed to be 'changed'.

I'd also suggest finding a local support group.  They'll be a wealth of knowledge on local facilities. 
There are a lot of great recommendations here. The only thing I’d add is being aware that a move will affect her Alzheimer’s by making her more confused. When I moved my mother her condition worsened. I believe there was some recovery after she got used to her new surroundings, but it never got back to the previous state. I’ve come to learn this isn’t uncommon and that any big or traumatic event will increase the severity of the Alzheimer’s. Good luck and all the best. 
Good point on the contracts, thank you 
How did you initially approach your mother about the move? Was she pretty open to the idea? I'm terribly worried my grand mother is going to fight what needs to be done to help her and force us to go a legal route to get her into care.
Thank you, I will see what is available here
This is good info to think about, thank you 
It seems that phrasing is everything with this disease
Excellent point
It was suggested that she might like to come down to Arizona for the winter- she loved visiting me, hates cold weather.  "It will be fun!"  "It's only for a few months, just to try it..."

She warmed up to the idea until I arrived to pick her up some months later.  Foul.  Mad about packing.  Stressed.  Kept pulling things like her embroidery supplies and mementos (things I knew that would make her feel at home) out of her suitcases and my sister and I would sneak them back in.

It was rough.  But- the day we left was lousy, bitter cold weather.  I promised magic on the other end, if we could just get through the day...

And it was.  She loved her new place. She raved about the warm weather!  Was so surprised that the furniture she picked out was there!  It was very spare and I kept it to just paper plates and plastic cutlery because I wanted her to have the joy of picking out the dishes she wanted once she had moved in.

It's been good.  I have the time to give her the attention and care she needs.  And my sister flew out bringing more of her things.  Even more wonderful- a friend was going to discard a battered dollhouse.  My mother loves miniatures and she spends hours painting, gluing, decorating.   

I think many people are set in their ways and don't want to move.  I think the key can be offering something that will make the move happier for them.  Would it be more time seeing family?  Better weather?  A place that has outings and more opportunities for companionship?  A chance to buy new things (if they love shopping)?
Honestly, we didn’t tell our relative. We just had family take her out for the day and movers took all her stuff over and dropped her off at the end of the day. She didn’t fight it at all. You have the added complication of moving states. But when we were trying to research transitions, some people said to tell their loved one they were staying at a hotel for a while and then eventually they get used to it. 
I will add, not all days are perfect.  Anything having to do with paperwork, banking or doctor appointments are bad days when she rants for hours about the supposedly lower quality of care in her new town, the confusion about banking ("Why are we doing this? Where is all my money???") I try and combine an unhappy activity, such as getting a document notarized, with a fun one, like a trip to the thrift store.  That usually makes her happy again.

I can see that working, it’s so hard with this disease to gauge what they will actually remember and notice. 
This is very helpful, thank you! We struggle with the bad days (as does everyone) and are dreading moving day. 
Remember that she won't remember any of this. hard truth but the disease progression is ongoing. Always remember you're doing this for her benefit to keep her safe. Make sure about the quality of care. Check your local laws about the extent of your POA. sometimes it means something and sometimes not. Where I live a person has to be deemed incompetent before they can be forced to move... Those standards are VERY high. So be sure of what you can do if she doesn't want to move.

Been there, done that. 
