I thought of something that might work.  Could a family member make up some laminated cards with your grandpa's picture and a short message that he could hand to your grandmother as he goes out.  "I am going for a walk and will be back soon! I love you very much!"  or "I am playing cards downstairs and will be back soon! I love you a lot!" 

If they were laminated and durable, they could be used multiple times and might guide your grandmother's thoughts.
Yeah that is a big one for dementia patients, about as big as thinking someone stole their money.
Happened to my grandfather. He thought my Dad  (his SIL) was seeing my grandmother.
Not much they could do then, not sure they could do much now. Keep him away from guns.
Can you or your parents think of something that your grandfather did go out and do regularly when he was younger?  A hobby? Going bowling with his buddies?  

Bringing that up as an excuse as to what your grandfather is doing might help.  

Is she angry with your grandfather when he comes back?  Does she hold onto the idea that he is supposedly having affairs or does she forget after awhile?
I am so sorry that you are going through this. My mom cheated on my dad and they separated 2 years ago. He has recently started talking about what a whore she is and how she cheated on him with multiple men. I am confident that it was only one. 

I wish I had some advice for you but I am at a loss as to how to deal with my dad. 
I work in assisted living/memory care, and I've found that being "on their side" is often helpful to my residents. For example, we have one resident who always thinks their car has been stolen and our caregivers are the thieves. This resident hasnt driven in years. But, I play along. I take thorough, official notes on the complaint, give a "reprimand" to the caregiver, and assure the resident that there WILL be action taken. Sometimes, all it takes is helping them to not feel alone in their [what we know to be a] delusion, and to feel validated and heard. Then, assured that justice WILL be served, they can go about the rest of their day at ease and will forget the problem they thought they had. 

If your grandmother isn't redirecting and/or isn't being talked down easily, try getting on her side. It may be hard for your grandfather to hear, so maybe talk to her when he isn't around. Tell her you will look into it, be **very** serious and mirror her emotions as if the situation were real. Maybe try telling her that you don't want to make him suspicious so act normal around him while you do your "investigating". If she persists beyond that conversation, just tell her you haven't found anything yet, he was just running/grocery shopping/at work, etc. But you will keep working on it. 

Validation techniques are my go-to, they seem to help best for my residents, but everyone is different. I wish you and your family the best of luck! Dementia is the hardest thing to watch someone go through. Stay strong <3 
I love this! Thank you. 
Yes she's angry when he comes back-- we've talked about hiring someone to keep her company or getting her one of those adorable robot pets-- just hard to say what might help.

She can't remember hardly anything but the one thing she knows is grandpa's stepping out on her. Not necessarily unusual for dementia but still hard. 
