Im sorry you're going through this, and wish you and your wife the very best

I don't know the answer. But it's ok to not be ok. You don't have to undertake an enormous project like starting a new business. You can be sad and unmotivated right now. That's probably the most reasonable reaction to what you're going through. 


It's so hard to see a loved one go through this. Take it day by day. Just get a job and weather the storm. Making a new business needs tons of focus and is very stressful. No need to do that now. Find something to distract yourself. 
Your wife isn't suffering. Anything unpleasant happens and she can move on and forget it quickly. The ones who suffers the most are family and caretakers. Don't see it as a tragedy, just see it as a disease and one you need to get used to.
You're going to be understandably distracted regardless of what you do. I'd suggest reaching out to friends who could serve as sounding boards, if to whom you could just vent, where solutions wouldn't have to be provided. Just having someone to whom you can bend an ear is very emotionally helpful.
It takes time to move forward with your life. Just give yourself time to come to terms with everything and things will work themselves out. 
I think starting a home-based business during one of the worst experiences you can go through might be too much for many people. I don't know you, though -- maybe it would help fill the time. But I know caregiving is one of the most stressful things for people to do, so most importantly take care of yourself. Go easy on yourself, do things like go for walks or meditate that benefit your own health. Reconnect with family and friends if possible. Maintain strong social ties. I recommend [Meetup.com](https://Meetup.com), too, for finding people with similar interests. There might even be groups for people who are caregivers. I wish you all the best at this terribly difficult time. 
I don't know.  I just wanted you to know that I'm sorry you have to figure this out.  


Maybe Marquise Goodwin can give you some advice. [Goodwin motivation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gL6uTBnBfns)
I am so sorry you are going through this. I completely agree with everyone else. First and foremost please take care of yourself, physically and mentally. Talk to the social worker at your wife's hospice and see if there are any support groups for spouses of those with dementia for you to go to. You will meet people in similar situations, learn coping strategies, and be able to speak your mind. When you spend time with your wife, try to make the most of it, read to her, listen to music with her, don't try to jog her memory, it may stress her out more and you as well. If she does have a lucid moment, go with it, but don't take it as an opportunity to memory test her, she is past the point of being able to do this. 


I think a normal job is much more stable than a home business. A home business has to worry about advertising, administration, cash flow regularity, inventory, etc etc. It is definitely a more attainable step to get connected with the regularity of an hourly job as a first step/
