Have you told them he has collapsed? Non-eating and non-drinking, as well as collapsing should be reasons for them to admit him. Also, have you told them you're not able to care for his needs anymore, as they've gotten beyond your capabilities? Finally, if you take him in again, they should weigh him (hopefully they did this the last time), and if he has lost a certain amount of weight (not sure what that is, but you might be able to find it online), they might have to admit him. 

Do you have an agency in your area that deals with elderly people, or people with dementia? We went through similar things with my in laws, and a social worker came to our house. He explained what to expect from their decline, and also how to get them the care they need. There are certain criteria for intervention. I can't remember what they are, but you might be able to find it online.
He does this dipping thing where is looks like someone shocked him and his knees buckle. 
Document his day to day cognitive and physical state so that you can show them how he fluctuates and how he is not able to care for himself. Tell them that sending him home would be negligent as he is a danger to himself, could wander off etc and that you feel he needs 24 hour care. Advocate for him and don't let them do something that you dont think is best for him. 
Not an expert, but what about your primary care doctor? ERs are usually for life threatening situations so I don't think they are well equipped to handle long-term care situations.
I feel your pain, back in November my Dad was admitted for aggression towards my Mom. They ran some tests, chalked it up to a UTI and dehydration after admitting him into the hospital after a significant loss in blood pressure. He was admitted into Geriatric Psych after that where everyone said he was a treat to be around. I talked to his social worker on the phone where I said I can't do this anymore. Then, someone called from the hospital asking what time to pick him up.
Today, I was informed by my Mom he was aggressive again. Luckily, after the last hospitalization I have had home care services including an amazing team.of women to bathe, evaluate, and help me endeavor this mess. We decided, doe the safety of my also disabled Mom to take him to the ER. The phrase that needs to be said is this:
"I can't take care of him. It's not safe and he is not welcome back with me."
I have been struggling with this all day, but I know it's for the best. I have been breaking myself daily, been more medicated than a lab rat, my marriage is suffering, and there was always a chance that my Mom could have been seriously injured. 
The hospital will get a social worker involved but you have to continuously say I can't. It's hard, you're not giving up on him. You are choosing yourself and I'm only 29 and he is 64 and deteriorating quickly. Cite scary or overwhelming instances to paint the bigger picture, but reiterate that you cannot handle it anymore.
They will get him placed because unfortunately in the US, hospitals are a business and they don't want to lose money. Stay strong! DM me on Twitter if you need to talk. *Hug*
thank you
Did they check for UTI?
thank you
Yes. Thanks for asking that. 
