Thats some sad shit... I dunno what id say on the spot, i think i might just start crying. 

But if i had the chance to think about it, i think id say i dont know, and ask her what shed want to do. Id treat it like one of a last of chances to get to know her while i still could.
I am so sorry that this disease is hurting you and you family.  I lost my husband to it in July after many years.   My advice is to focus on the journey not the destination.  It is true that her trip is predetermined.  You can still turn up the radio and sing along the way.  When she has a good day, use it.   Talk, ask her questions, watch a documentary together, have her watch as you bake something, arts and crafts, a trip to the zoo, anything that the two of you will enjoy together.  It is horrible that this is all you get, but if you spend all of the time you have left focusing on that you won’t even get this.  
You mentioned there were no meds - the docs have given my mom a fton! There's a huge spectrum, all with side effects, if your looking to chemically comfort her. Many are not "approved" for dementia, but the docs still prescribe them. 

Give her doctor a call. See if a neurologist will see her.
My mom (62) does this too. I find her moments of lucidity about her decline the saddest. When she does this my go to response is to hold her hand and say something like “I can’t say what the future holds but I can tell you we will face it together. I’ll be here and support you no matter what.“

I’ve always thought “together” is the kindest, warmest word. It’s what I would want to hear. It seems to do well in comforting my mom to a degree. 

I also distract as much as I can after that. But I too face hours of her emotional suffering each night. She’s only in the late moderate stage so the future is legitimately pretty scary. Sometimes nothing will work, and that’s the toughest.

Best of luck to you and your mother. This is hard stuff. I’m so sorry.
I'm sorry to hear this. How is her physical condition...? How old is she? In my opinion, the only thing (and best thing) you can do, is to focus on making this time as pleasant, happy, and comforting as possible.  


Does she like nature..? Go for a short walk with her once a week.  
Does she enjoy shopping..? Take her out and treat her to something fairly inexpensive: a nice scarf. a bag. whatever it may be.  
Is she interested in animals...?  A short trip to the zoo once in a while, or a stroll around the park to feed the ducks would be appreciated on some level. And you would feel better having done your part.  


It's a heartbreaking time for you, but we can only do so much.  

Does she qualify for hospice? If not, see her physician about meds. My husband is on Risperdal which helped with his emotions. Anxiety meds, an antidepressant and BPH meds also help. Is she taking something for her pain? 
