Everyone dies, but our western culture has pushed this aspect of life away from norms and its made it harder to accept or deal with, especially when diseases like alzheimers, cancer, heart ailments, stroke, etc., take our loved ones away before we can process their dying. 

We need to realize as humans that everyone will die someday. Yes, it will be sad and we will grieve, but we will also take away things from their lives and learn. My gramma left me some wonderful little songs, some good advice, and a few bits of her history that have been helpful in learning why I am the way I am. 


It is important not to focus on her remembering your name, but the feelings being around you inspire. She may not remember your name, or eventually you, but she will still feel love when she looks at you or hears your voice. That doesn’t change. And also how you feel about her. Do what you can to not let your fear color your interactions and memories of her. Otherwise, you will have difficulty looking back on your memories with her, or telling your children about their great-grandmother. 
Alzheimer's is sad but don't let it keep you away from visiting or interacting with her. You can still make memories!

They don't always forget completely. My husband is currently on hospice (has been for a year) and can no longer talk. I am his only caregiver. Most days we just go through our routine, but every so often he will look at me and light up! He still knows who I am 🙂
man ... so sorry to hear about your grandma.  My mom has it now and in the late stages, you have to have EXTREME patience with them.  I'm not going to say I never lost mines because just like children they will do things that makes little to no sense, and even to the point you won't recognize them later on BUT if anything remember the good times with her as much as possible.  Surprisingly when my Uncle passed away from Alzheimer's you'll be surprised how people forgot him even having it and remember the great times.  I always say the body might fail but the memories will always keep people alive in someway.   Good luck ... have patience and cherish every moment 
Thank you for your kind words ❤️
