Depends on where the person is in terms of function where they can be. An assisted living facility won't take someone if they cannot do for themselves - wash, dress, eat, use the bathroom, etc. They also won't have as much medical care on-site, and you would still be responsible for making sure that medical appointments got kept, and that the facility knew that the person might need checking on. 

A nursing home will have the medical facilities, and be able to dispense medications. 
Some assisted livings have a memory care portion available and can handle all the medications if you opt into that. They have an RN on staff and then LPNs that do all the med passes, but with most assisted living homes even in the memory care portion they have to qualify and are not able to treat anything they called skilled, so if requires more than soap water and a bandage they will be sent out. PM me if you need some recommendations on AL facilities. You can also contact resources through your DRs or hospitals. They are usually equipped with a list of places that might would work for your situation. Good luck. 
Brookedale Preston in Dallas is a facility that has memory care. Brookdale is known to be very reputable in the healthcare community here in Alabama. I would look into them. I don’t like speaking against companies as a whole but I would NEVER put my loved ones in a Genesis owned companies hope this helps. As far as other languages is concerned they can have a translator if she needs one. They can information you further on this. Good luck. 
Whichever you choose, do your homework on them. So many facilities cut corners on staff to save money. That leaves loved ones alone and unchanged too long. May not be an issue for your mom now but in the future...? 
I'm putting my mom is a assisted living facility but check to make sure it's the right place regardless of the price, this place is about $3,500 a month BUT way worth it since my mom needs 24/7 care. They did suggest going full Medicare so they can have in-home doctors visits, they also dispense medicine so I would ask about that.  Good luck in your search 
ideally,it will be nursing home but many if not all reject alz patients. so i guess memory care but how can people pay the cost! over 120k- a year in dallas. american healthcare wants to drown people in debt
This is not entirely true.  This is entirely dependant on the state and the assisted living itself.  You must see what services the assisted living provides and compare then to the long term care nursing home.
Thanks i am in dallas/plano,tx...If you know of some good places i appreciate it. Also her first language is not english and often times, resort to her mother tongue. that may pose an issue in the future--replying to workers in these facilities. thoughts?
thanks . appreciate your honesty. 
That's what I'm seeing now with my Dad who is in a skilled rehab facility for Alzheimer's patients.  Not enough staff there to provide help with feeding, changing, etc.
I wish my Dad could go to an assisted living facility but he needs help with feeding and being changed.  Looked at a place today and it was $18k a month.  Yikes.
https://www.nia.nih.gov/health/frequently-asked-questions-about-alzheimers-disease
My mom and grandmother were at a ‘home plus’. Basically a converted suburban home for about 8-10 individuals. I’m 2 states up I-35, and the cost was $210/day (mom passed 2 years ago, grandma-less than a year). Surely there are some in the dfw area? I even thought of starting my own when I was faced with the prospect of having my mother and two grandmother’s in this type of care home. 
damn, my mom has the same issue BUT it's $3k a month - if you can find a home that has like 5 rooms and just caters to those patients it's good.  $18K is pricey 
that's a good idea. i never heard. i know memory care is crazy expensive, in dfw
Is there a good name for that type of place?
assisted living and found it under Home for Mom, just tell them your budget  ... you'll have to hit up a few places and some are filled and have a waiting list, never easy
Thanks, will try to check out some places.  Crazy how expensive it is.
don't know income level but check your local homes and rules, I know if you put him into a home and if you run out of money a program like Medi-Cal kicks in and they can not kick him out, just a thought but don't know your situation 
Is that a general rule - once someone is on Medicaid they can't kick them out?
I was told that at a Nursing home in LA that they do the transfer once they are on ... I can't tell if that's a one in your area 
