I think it’s impossible to tell from what you mention. Could just be that she’s stressed out. I heard once that normal behavior is forgetting your keys; Alzheimer’s is looking at your keys and forgetting what they are for.
If you are worried, suggest she get checked out by a doctor.
Alzheimer’s disease is a very specific pathology that requires diagnosis by a doctor. There are a lot of things that can cause mood disturbances and other neurological issues. 54 is young, but it isn’t too young for early onset AD. There’s no harm in getting her to go in for an annual check up and mentioning these things to her doctor. 

Offer to make the appointment for her if she’s amenable to that. 
Better to see a neurologist and find out it isn't ALZ than put off seeing a doctor and finding out that it is.  My mom was diagnosed at 56 but was showing signs up to 2 years before, a lot of what you are describing.
Yeah there's already no real way to tell in real life.   
But that is a great way to explain it. She has been doing a bit of both. 
She would be doing something and suddenly freeze, trying to figure out how to do this two step task.
After a few seconds to a minute she always snaps back, but until then she would turn around in confusion trying to understand what she was doing.
I will definitely sit down with her and have a deep conversation about this. No changing the subject until I'm satisfied this time.
Dementia is a more accurate word in my opinion. Alzheimer’s is just one of numerous dementias.
I think you would be better served by taking the steps yourself and having her checked by a geriatric-psychiatrist.  “Having a deep conversation” with someone who may be brain damaged is only going to be frustrating for you, and if you are concerned enough that you are worried about her safety, then having it checked will put both your minds at ease. 

That aside, there are *infinitely* better resources for caring for an elderly parent than Reddit, dementia/Alzheimers or not.  Alzheimers.org and looking up your Department of Aging or DHHS will be more equipped to answer your questions.  Reddit is great for social/moral support, but get opinions from credentialed experts. 
Right, which is why I said that AD is a very specific pathology. You can have dementia, and not have AD brain pathology. 
