As opposed to the long term effects of Alzheimer’s?

There is no reason to even worry about the side effects of medication. All you should worry about is his and her comfort. 
Quite honestly if it helps keep her safe and moderately comfortable and makes it so your dad can manage her care don't worry about the long term use this may sound brutal but there is no cure and there isn't one in sight the best you can hope for is getting her through the end as comfortably and painlessly as possible if that means sedation well that's just what it is
Honestly... I didn't want my Dad hopped up on anti-psychotics for the same reason but his quality of life is sooooo much better now. He's been on a slow decline (I'd say 10 years for [stage 1-3](https://www.alzheimers.net/stages-of-alzheimers-disease/)) and hit a tail spin into stage 4 last spring. He was nasty, mean, anxious, paranoid. Since he started on Zyprexa, he's been 100 times more pleasant than he's ever been in his life. Even if the Zyprexa knocked 1 month off his life each year he's alive, I'd still keep him on them. He has a nice existence despite his shitty, cruel disease. 

I am not a doctor but if she isn't on an anti-psychotic already, maybe  ask about that for during the day and then use the Trazodone at night, it's commonly rx'd for sleep anyway. 
Thanks for posting this. We are going through introducing tranqs and antipsychotics now. Others' responses have helped me be ok with these. It sucks because they really do zonk her. But it sure does beat getting accused of murder. 
If she is taking trazadone plus another antidepressant? This can improve sleep which is important.  Wife has alzheimers and does this along with velafexine and bupropion.  Mostly this was prescribed for depression but after the AD diagnosis it was kept up.  Don't worry about this as much if she takes these and any proscribed AD drugs in a regular and consistent manner.  Best of luck with you.
-my father can longer sleep much the past week as my mum is talking and walking throughout the night. he is fatigued. Is this usually the point she'll need to go to the nursing home? or are there options for her to stay at home?regarding the latter, i fail to see how-if he is tired. she did use new opiods this week. maybe that is the cause?
thanks. it's a shitty disease and i'm super fatigued by it
haha. i know what you mean by the last sentence...she'll say some things which amazes me; accused me of stealing her sock.
appreciate it..this reddit is a lifesaver asking questions...i could never find correct references. i would call alz hotline and some of the reps never had experience with alz--they would give me vague answers...at this point there are no good answers but picking the least bad option...and this country's healthcare system would love to bankrupt their own citizens..i'll continue with the trazadone,and i think she is taking xanax..but she is now in zombie like state...and will say the meanest things now.
The fatigue is real. It might actually kill my Mom before him. And we're keeping him at home as long as humanly possible. There's also nothing wrong with him health-wise aside from the Alzheimer's. It's going to be a long journey. 
she'll bug me to no end..i found that those singing videos (the show is little big shots or america's got talent)on youtube, put it on her favorites based on her reaction,and put on repeat all day so she doesn't bug me as much
-my father can longer sleep much the past week as my mum is talking and walking throughout the night. he is fatigued. Is this usually the point she'll need to go to the nursing home? or are there options for her to stay at home?regarding the latter, i fail to see how-if he is tired. she did use new opiods/tranquilizers this week. maybe that is the cause?
I am not sure I follow your post, forgive me.

Basically, my Dad sleeps through the night for the most part. The Zyprexa makes him very tired. He has always gotten up in the middle of the night to walk around and check windows and doors, he still does this sometimes but overall, he sleeps all night.

I think the nursing home issue is completely individual. If she is no longer safe, then your father should look into all of his options. Keeping people home is always best but not always ideal. We do not want to put my dad in a home at all, whatsoever, if we can avoid it. 

I would ask the doctor if her new meds could be causing her some insomnia. 
she was introduced to new meds this week. i think this is causing insomnia
Could be. Call the dr. they can give something for sleep. The longer she goes without good sleep the more agitated she will be.
ok i'll try that. thanks for the advice. Slowly running out of options..........
