sorry about your grandma but don't always assume the worse, maybe her loss is causing your mom to have a different frame of thinking and confusion - that's a big thing losing a parent.  
Hi. My moms mom passed away of Alzheimer’s long ago. I was 6. She never knew me even though I knew her. I watched my mother crumble every time we visited her. Now, my mom has Alzheimer’s. She’s had it for years. Since I was 16 (I’m now 27), I’ve watched her deteriorate. When o was 16, her older sister had her diagnosed and it was a terrible experience. My mom has her drivers license taken away at the drop of a hat. She felt violated and she wasn’t ready for that. So, I wrote a letter to the doctor to have the diagnoses retracted. That was 10 years ago. -9 years later, I am living with my mother in my own personal hell. I am grieving her every day. She won’t go to the doctor to get help. She’s too afraid. I hate her sister for traumatizing my mother with that Doctor visit 10 years ago. I scream. I punch walls. My life is on hold. I love my mother with every bone in my body. I don’t want to leave her but I need her to see someone. I need help. I can’t do this alone. 
id think so too, but there is so much more that shes ALWAYS done thats definitely signs....short term memory, shitty hygenie (shes a hoarder), extremely horrible at misplacing evrything and blames it on others, shitty judgement (driving on the wrong side of the road just to look at the moon because shes so enamored with nature)
There are many mental or physical conditions that could explain these behaviors. If you are concerned about her driving being a threat to others you can call the DMV. They will likely ask her to come in for a fresh driving exam. If she is not a danger to herself or others by her behaviors at home there may be little you can do. Talk with a social worker about your concerns. They are knowledge about services, laws, and government regulations in these situations.
does she live by herself?  The driving on the wrong side of the road is dangerous  ... 
How long has she been like this? 
Sorry for the super late response but she lives with my sister and her off and on boyfriend (I know she honestly uses him for money/roof over her head...)
She been like this since my dad and her met (+30 years ago) for the longest time he thought they were just quirks, but she's never changed, only gotten worse/more frequent
30+ years probably isn't dementia, it doesn't develop that early and last that long. Most people are lucky to get 10 years after being diagnosed.

It sounds like she has some form of mental illness. To me it sounds like psychosis, so maybe schizophrenia? Getting older, her memory will obviously get worse and stuff. Heck she could even develop dementia along side this other illness.
