Its very situational.

Does she need a bath? Or can you try to get the important bits on a trip to the bathroom if she's had a full bath recently enough. (pick your battles).

Will she remember that you discussed it in 20 minutes? If not, walk away and try again in a little bit. 

Is there any other was to approach it? 'I got a new container of bubbles' 'after your bath how about your favourite red dress' 'lets get you in the bath and then I'll do your hair so you can show it off at lunch time.' If you find something she is agreeable to, and frame that as the choice sometimes you can slide in agreement about something else, like a bath, without them even noticing.

Good luck.
 ... admire your patience!  My mom went through the same thing with her caregiver, she would say she did things all the time.  Sadly the caregiver would just leave the room, wait a few minutes and come back and say time for a bath.  It would take a few times but she wouldn't remember, the trick was more acting that it's a new time everytime 
Bathing without a battle has a free online course.  Check it out http://bathingwithoutabattle.unc.edu.
“Come on, it’s time for your bath,” I’d say with a cheerful tone as I entered the room... a new beginning after she’s refused.  This worked for me on the two days a week she would spend the morning at an Alz day centre. On the first mention she always said, “i don’t want to go today.”  Okay, that’s fine. We can do something else.  When time came to put on her coat, “Come on, time to go!”  She would come running as tho she had forgotten something (smile) and quickly get ready to go out.  
My father believes he should be the boss. The carer we have now waits until he is up on his feet and goes into his room and says something like "good! You told me to wait until you got up for your shower" - she makes him think the timing was all his idea. Then he is asked to check and make sure the water temp is ok and could he please tell if the blue shirt is ok? 
Little follow up: thank you for your advice, it worked! I will be using this advice in the future!!
Yes she needs one. It’s been 2 days. Thank you so much!! I will definitely try this! I really appreciate your help! 
Thank you for your help! 
Thank you!!!
Wow thank you!!! I will try this next time! I had the exact same problem I posted about happen today. I will definitely try this!
So glad it worked on. Great job on your patience and persistence. Good luck.
