That’s tough to figure out. Her Doctor can order something for her anxiety - you can probably request that they start on the mild end, so she doesn’t end up overmedicated.  It may take awhile to find the best dose.  I hope she finds some relief soon, good luck.
I would suggest a low stimulus environment if she isn’t already in one. Sometimes people with dementia can be over stimulated by things such as a noisy environment, bright lights, lots of movement etc. so see if it’s possible for her to spend some time in a quiet space, dim lights, maybe some of her favourite music playing softly in the background? Or if she’s cognitively sound enough, simply ask her what the matter is. Hope these suggestions help! Good luck!! 
Thanks for the suggestions.

When we ask her what's wrong or what she needs help with, sometimes she will indicate something hurts but this could be even a minor pain, sometimes she will say she doesn't know, and sometimes she will just repeat that she needs help. Part of this behavior is due to the fact that she is religious and is calling out to religious figures to help her as she thinks she is in a hospital and thus ill. 

I would like her in a nicer facility that can give more one on one care and is not so hospital like but they start at $2400 per month and grandma does not get more than $1300 per month and did not have long term care coverage because when she was more functional she insisted she was going to die in her apartment.
In terms of the pain, even minor pain can be distressing for people with dementia as they no longer have the capacity to understand the pain or why it’s there etc. so express it in different ways, so what about regular pain medications if possible? And if she’s already on regular pain meds, perhaps one that’s charted to be used as needed for when she becomes distressed. I work in a secure dementia unit and have seen people’s distress lower or disappear when a stronger pain medication was introduced, but obviously I don’t know your grandmother or the situation exactly so these are merely suggestions. 

It must be so frustrating and saddening for you that she can’t go to a nicer facility. I can not believe how expensive it is for long term care of the elderly:( I hope things work out for you and grandma!💕
She's on pain meds. I don't recall which ones. I know not all of her pain is severe because sometimes she will scream that we are hurting her before we even start to touch her just because of her anxiety. They recently put her on buspar so hopefully that will help.

I just hate to see her so miserable in the last years of her life.
I understand, it must be so hard for you. I wish you guys all the best and I hope you can find a middle ground where your grandma is more settled and comfortable!
