Talk to him about getting financial and other logistical stuff done. So he or you do not have to worry about it.  This is super important and if he does not want to face the medical side of it. He should be rational about getting things in order.
this is a flashback but yeah my mom was in the same position years ago UNTIL she went to her yearly physical and the doctor had to talk to us as a family about it.  BUT to your dad's point, he's right.  BUT if anything be supportive and get his financials in order, trust me it's a pain getting it lined up especially if you don't know where to start or what he has, also get the Power of Attorney ready as well as a potential trust for the future.  Man I'm hoping you have a more time with your dad especially when he's clear, if you could, spend as much QUALITY time you have with him now and have less regrets about it in the future 
Maybe focus on his health in general.  It's not necessarily a sign of Alzheimer's to forget something simple.  He might have other issues that cause confusion that can be corrected.  Try to get him to do what he can as far as diet and exercise and sleep, etc.
The legal issues getting taken care of is most important....at least giving someone medical AND legal power of attorney.  Next, there is research that shows some people benefit for a while taking Aricept and or Nameda....until they don't have any effect anymore...
I probably have alzheimers and I feel exactly the same way about it as your dad, I even think most people do. If you have people that care for you, I believe you will eventually go to the doctor because they keep asking you to do so out of love, so you give back eventually. Since I am younger I could be more usefull for scienceprojects to extend identity of alzheimerino's. So that gives me my reasons to go for checkups. To pitch in some effort so the smart doctors can prolong identity without too much memoryloss in the future. No matter what people becide, I believe it would be best to try to see the decline in the most positive way possible and through that try to experience alot of positive things.
Before he gets evaluated though, maybe look at getting him long-term care insurance. My understanding is it will help with care at a facility down the road, but cannot be obtained once he has a diagnosis.  
 
Maybe emphasize that while he may not think it will help him, 1) his family will likely be the ones who end up taking care of him and would like to know (should have a right to know IMO so they can prepare); 2) there are meds that can slow the progression if taken early enough, even if it can’t stop it completely; 3) the information he can provide to the medical field and any studies he participates in may help others down the road, which would seem like a worthy legacy for one to leave
This is important to remember. Every time I start panicking, I have to remind myself of this. 
I'm in your dad's shoes myself.  Both of my parents have or had Alzheimer's.  I'm 61 and have unbelievably stupid moments.  But I quit drinking about 5 years ago and now go to the gym 4 or 5 days a week.  Still have worrisome memory lapses but I feel so much better than before.  
I'd try to get him to a doctor. He could have a cyst on his brain, UTIs can even cause dementia-like symptoms in older people. There are treatable things that can mimic Alzheimer's. There are also drugs to help manage the symptoms. Aricept doesn't help everybody, but it's helped my mom and one of her friends a lot. Her memory's not much better, but it is a little better, she sleeps better, her anxiety is better, she's less agitated. She's much further in the disease than it sounds like your dad is, but early diagnosis if he does have it could help you get more good time together.
I'm really glad to hear that! 
