I love those sparks!
It's funny. First, I feel like trump (love him or loathe him) is so polarizing that even folks with dementia seem to be far more aware who our current head of state is than they would have been with previous administrations. My mother does not know I'm her daughter but she knows very well who the president is. 

And second, brains are so damned weird! Like again my mom is well into stage 6, does not know I'm her daughter or how many children she has or that she is married. But every once in awhile she will yell out a jeopardy answer... correctly! 

The other day PBS was on, and it said something about how one of its donors was the Oppenheimer Fund. And my mom said "Oppenheimer...bomb!" 

Which is all to say I am continually perplexed, and amazed by the weirdness of brains. 
Does he do twitter? Lol

 
Does he watch the channel grit? My dad does and he loves it.
Too funny. My father loves westerns too. When we recently moved him to Assisted Living his biggest complaint was their lack of cowboy movies with their cable package. 
Beautiful story. Treasure it all. 
When my sister was in her early 20s, she was hired to forva part in an independent film. The guy making it decided to use his grandfather, who had dementia, in it. Not ethical as he couldn't consent, but anyway, in the scene he was in, he was in the bath and my sister was supposed to be the nurse or whatever and wash his back. This guy had pretty bad dementia and was pretty much not verbal...except one instance when my sister accidentally dropped the soap in the water. When she went to reach in to get it, he said something like "That's ok honey. You can reach into my bathtub any time."

Dirty old man, lol.
He remembers a lot - but confuses people often.  My husband is about his favorite person - he lights up when he sees him and says he always knows he's about to do something fun when he comes to visit.  But he sometimes thinks he's my brother (who doesn't visit often) and one time thanked him for marrying <insert my mom's name> when I'm sure he meant me.  So first thing my husband says when we left was that it felt creepy my dad thought he was married to my mom.  But the stories he tells once he gets going - great detail.  He remembers poems and songs and places.  He does repeat the same ones often - but randomly throw in new ones.  The saddest part is he REALLY REALLY wants to go to Disney.  We just can't handle it - too many concerns, issues and we just are not equipped.  It breaks my heart that he asks me every time I see him.
Haha - no.  His interests pretty much are eating, watching tv (set to some channel that is non-stop old westerns), and going out with family.  Which if we keep him out too long - he starts talking about getting back to his tv shows.  They used to keep the living room TV on (he has one in his room - but walks a loop during commercials to stay fit) but the lady who watched in there is bed-bound now so that one is off.  
He might - I know the entire house knows not to change the channel.  He is normally the sweetest one in the house and all the caregivers like him.  But change the channel and the sky might as well be falling.  They used to have an "all TV's off by 9" rule.  It quickly changed when he moved in.  His stays on all night, but they did get him to agree the volume goes down at 9.  I brought him back one day and a commercial he had never seen was on - he was convinced they changed the channel while we were out.  I asked him to wait until the end of the commercial before he went out to tell them.  At the end, a western came on and he happily says "Yep, that's the right channel" and sat right down.
I do worry a bit about him offending the caregivers - but I guess they are skilled in dementia and hopefully understanding.  There used to be one who was shorter and heavier (though not fat) than the others who are all quite thin.  Since he can't remember their names - he'd call her the fat one when talking to me.  I said he shouldn't call her that - and he said he doesn't call her that to her.  He called the guy "the tattooed one".  :}  I guess we can only do so much...
I'm sorry, not being able to fulfill final wishes is very hard :( Safety does come first though and, while Disney is not possible, you give him so many smaller joys so often. That means a lot!

Not understanding family relationships can be super creepy. It was one of the things I saw slip away from my moms understanding years ago. For instance, thinking her niece and nephew were married instead of siblings. Now she sometimes gets jealous and thinks I'm trying to sleep with her husband (my father).  

I think the most important thing in your case is that he seems happy with his memories, however he puts things together. And that there still seems to be a lot of happiness in his life. All the support you are giving him is a true gift. 


