If you decide to make this trip with your dad, it will require a LOT of advance planning. You will definitely want to notify and work with the airline at every stage, both before and during the trip. 

Things like change of environment, fatigue, hunger, noise and crowds can exacerbate the symptoms of dementia. Even without dementia, the stress and demands of travel will be *hard* on someone who is elderly and ill.   

Have notes from his doctor(s) along with contact information. Have a list of all medications. Include dosages, reasons for taking the med, and the name of the prescribing doctor. Have your father's information, your contact information, and contact information for someone on each end of the trip with you and also secured somewhere on your father's person (eg, in a pocket).  

Long lines everywhere at the airport. I would definitely suggest you utilize wheelchair assistance, whether your father regularly uses one or not. He will have to go through security. Even a pat-down in a separate room is likely to cause agitation. You will want to request or try to find a quiet(er) place to wait for boarding. The airline will want to board you early, but then you've got to sit there as everyone else crowds on to the plane.  

The loud announcements may agitate your father, as may the cramped quarters. You will want to travel with as many 'soothers' and diversions as you can manage, things he is familiar with and will find comforting. Make sure he is dressed in layers so he can easily warm up or cool down. A lot of people suggest noise canceling earphones, but I know they are just plain uncomfortable for some older people. 

I'm not sure how you would manage toileting. You may - seriously - have to consider leaving him in the same diaper for the entire trip. But definitely check with the airline, because I have no idea what they suggest or can do for international trips.  And I would think feeding on the plane would be difficult, too. 

This is all just scratching the surface. I'm sure I'm forgetting or not thinking of a LOT. Notify and ask advice at every step - tell them when you book tickets, contact the airport and the airline again before you travel, notify personnel at check-in, notify TSA, notify the gate agents and notify the airplane crew.

Can you figure out a way to bring Asia and home to him instead? Someone posted a couple of months ago about doing something like that, and there were lots of good ideas.  

I'm really sorry for the circumstances that both you and your father find yourselves in.  Whatever you end up doing, I hope it brings you both some peace and happiness.   


I think he would refuse food and drink before flying to avoid spoiling himself. But the consequence is that he might pass out from low blood sugar. I can probably get him to drink just enough juice to keep that from happening but it’s obviously not ideal. I could also try to get a longer layover so it’s 2 10 hour flights instead. And he has time to sleep laying down.

I’ll call the airlines and see what they say. I called a fancy medical transport company, they quoted me $155k for private nurse accompanied travel. Yikes!! That’s definitely not gonna happen.
I would recommend emailing the airline you choose to fly with for most of these questions. 

And they would have him sit in a wheelchair most likely to navigate the airport and boarding/deboarding.
Have only flown domestic short haul, and elder was in better shape. Was pleasant: pre-boarded. Many walkers can fold to stow; assume if they can manage strollers, they can do walkers. Suggest also contacting airport personnel for terminal navigation details, as airlines' responsibility & savvy doesn't always extend through terminals. May need doctor note to get Glucerna through TSA. Possibly check with customs too. In US, at least, carry LOTS of one dollar bills for tipping. Maybe travel agent can do some of the info-gathering for you?
I wouldn’t think the aisles are wide enough for a walker, so that may make it a real problem getting to the restroom.  Be sure to ask the airline. Best of luck.
I travel regularly with my daughter who is disabled and critically ill.  

Your situation seems very challenging - the most challenging of all in my opinion is that your father is not a flexible, pleasant person.  I'm not trying to be judgmental, it's just that a 22 hour plane trip is going to be exhausting and require a lot of willingness to accommodate unexpected changes and even hardships.  Things could get very hard if he gets upset and frustrated in the middle of a long flight.

If you are determined to do this - call TSA Cares and they can help you prepare for security.  Call the airline and they can help you prepare for boarding needs (aisle chair, extra carry-ons for medical supplies.  I'm not sure how you would address his toileting - maybe have him wear several briefs and periodically remove the one closest to his skin?  It will be very uncomfortable for him and those around him if he starts to smell because his clothes are dirty.  We have traveled with formula, they will review it during security.  There shouldn't be a problem using it during the flight.

I know you want to honor your father's wishes, but I think this trip could be awful for him, and for you and your wife - not to mention the others on the plane.  I think that if it were me, I would tell him that we were making plans and would know more next week and just keep putting him off.  

I'm so sorry that you are having to make these decisions and I wish you all the best.  
Thanks for the reply. I wasn’t aware of the TSA cares support. The flight would be a 14hr leg, 3 hour layover and last 3 hour leg.

He’s done this journey many times when he was healthier. He’s adamant he can do it again. He has another appointment with his cardiologist before the doctors will give him a letter saying they think it’s ok to fly. 

I still don’t know how the toileting is going to work since there’s no room for someone to help him in the bathroom. He’s gonna have to do that himself. I might just have to bring a lot of baking soda and hope for #1 not #2. It’s also an overnight trip. So if he just did a juice fast, it would only be for 6 hours.

ugh.
You're stuck between a rock and a hard place. Is it at all possible to--I hate to say this--fool your dad and say that his good friend(s) and/or family from his hometown (healthy enough to travel the distance, plane ride and a place to stay paid for by you, fully aware of the elaborate scheme you're orchestrating for the benefit of your dad's health and wellbeing) had already planned to visit because they had never been to your neck of the woods and had been so looking forward to traveling there and along the way, meet with dad so he will have to stay put for awhile to welcome and entertain them? As his dementia advances, he may forget his request and get distracted by beloved visitors from his hometown and get a slice of hometown that way.

I only suggest this because a 22-hour plane ride will be hell for your dad, you and your husband, and possibly others (if he gets on a dementia induced tantrum--you can never predict how dementia mangles the mind--it might not be a pretty scene and if he gets overly physically expressive, there may be additional problems).
I'm sorry if this isn't helpful, but have you considered taking a transatlantic cruise as an alternative?

I've been trying to get my post stroke mother to Asia and my two current options are: several shorter flights with at least 8 hours layover for rest/sleep and a cruise.

Being a caregiver is so trying, best of luck whatever you end up choosing.
Unfortunately not just low blood sugar, but dehydration, too.  This can impact mood, mental state, kidneys and cardiac rhythm, especially in someone older and/or ill. 

Your idea of breaking the trip up into segments is a good one. But then you introduce a greater number of 'new' environments.  Genuinely not trying to tank your idea, just re-emphasizing that there are many elements involved. You know your dad better than anyone, though, and are in the best position to evaluate.  Really hope you can successfully pull this off. 
