If it’s a severe panic about it I think reassuring is the best you can do, as well as trying to distract her from the fact that she needs to go get medical help.
You could tell her that last time you went the hospital the doctor  told you to drink this, and it’ll make you feel a lot better, Ural sachets (usually you can get them from your local supermarket) and she can drink one of them, it says in big writing “helps clear UTIs.” Also it won’t cause any harm, just clean our her urinary system! 
Best of luck. 
Are you sure there’s nothing wrong? She may be experiencing urinary pain that’s simply not a UTI. 
Yes, this, I was going to suggest something benign she can take that you can tell her is treatment. My Mom with Dementia has recently become convinced she's "stopped up" even though several trips to doctor have concluded everything is normal. So we got her some Prune juice and told her to take a very small glass daily until she gets "regular" again. This seems to have calmed all her nerves about it, plus the juice has some calories and with getting her to eat being a problem, calories are never bad.
If you happen to know - are those safe for diabetics?  I am going to look into some for her.  Is it a tea that you make?  Or a pill? 

EDIT:  I see they have some pills that she can take, as well as at home test strips so we can show her proof she does not have one.  Thanks for the tip! 
ER as well as regular doc confirm all ok downstairs.  She has had UTI's in the past and she's paranoid about getting another one because she is afraid she is going to wet the bed - even though she never has.  

I've tried to walk her through a worst-case scenario if that happened, i.e., we can clean it up and get a new mattress, but it does not reassure her.  
We've been going with telling her that she is already taking a pill for a UTI but I think we can only do that for so long before she catches on.  I don't know whether it's best to keep misleading her like this, I don't like to lie to her.  
Yes they are, you may just wanna double check but I use it with my diabetic residents every day. It’s powder you put into water and mix it until dissolved. 
I know the feeling, but was told trying to get her to see the truth would hurt her more by her doctor. I found this article helpful in framing out the difference between lying and therapeutic fibbing.

[https://dailycaring.com/why-experts-recommend-lying-to-someone-with-dementia/](https://dailycaring.com/why-experts-recommend-lying-to-someone-with-dementia/)
This was excellent, thank you for directing me there.  
The Gentle Art of the Lie, or how I learned to keep everyone calm with Fiblets. 
But seriously, you can redirect without lying (technically) if you are creative about it. It’s ok to redirect. It’s also ok to lie, if it is a kindness. 
