[deleted]
YES! My MIL was like this. Very verbal, quite the chatter box, yet had a 6 second memory. She was like that up until near the very end. Cracking jokes, telling stories (same ones over and over again), flirting with the nurses and doctors. We learned to be aware that MIL, because she was so verbal, was especially good at confabulation. 

In the memory care unit there as such a dramatic difference between her and most of the other patients, who tended towards dementia that affected their verbal skills. So like your Nan, MIL was frustrated the other residents couldn't have a conversation with her. She'd still talk to them regardless. Wholesale making up back-stories out of thin air for each one. 

Meanwhile, her caregivers loved her lively, feisty, humorous nature and they talked up a storm with her. In many ways I think she got better treatment as she was able to engage with them. 
I think it sounds like the facility is a bad fit for her. Have you considered others? I feel like everyone thinks people are supposed to age into boring old fogies that drink tea and knit (nothing wrong with any of those things) But not everyone is like this! I've been a caregiver for elderly people for years. Some people are just movers and shakers until they die. Just how they are! Maybe your Nan just needs a more active community! Don't shame her for being who she really is. The Attila comment cracked me up btw 😂😂😂 As long as she isn't combative or violent that's the main thing. 

So she's mouthy...ok? As caregivers we're taught to be thick-skinned. That person can get over it. Seriously. Maybe try finding some stuff she likes to do? And does she have Medicaid? My company is hired to go in to provide extra support in facilities to spend time with residents doing activities. Sometimes it's just to break up the monotony of the day.
Going through this right now. My grandma’s mememory is fairly non existent for current events. She doesn’t know who anyone is or what’s going on the majority of the time. However, she is in fairly good health for her age otherwise, she only takes one prescription medicine daily. My mother won’t accept exactly how bad things have gotten because of her physical health being so positive and it’s extremely frustrating. It’s hard to find the ground of helping my grandma get through the day and being condescending because she has lucid moments here and there. The denial of her condition paired with my mom’s negative perception of nursing facilities and my mom working the majority of the day is just a lot. I’m not personally a nuturing person and am very aware I can’t handle my grandma’s state and my mom is not a patient enough woman. The solution is an easy one for my grandmas safety and dignity, but we here.
Oo this sounds very similar. Nan got a 12 on hers and we were told that was bad too! Comforting to know there are others out there but we just have such a problem with the care home because they tell her she can’t walk unaided and she gets stroppy and upset! She’s so bored I think! 
