First of all, I’m sorry that you are going through this. I will do my best to get out everything that has helped us with my MIL, and I apologize in advance for the essay I’m writing for you. Please feel free to PM me if you have any questions going forward.

You mention Medicare, so you must be in the US. It sounds like your grandmother hasn’t yet been formally diagnosed with dementia or Alzheimer’s, which if that is the case try to get her signed onto a long term care insurance before the diagnosis happens. After she is diagnosed they won’t cover her and Medicare won’t pay for long term care unless and until she has exhausted all of her own personal assets. They also won’t pay for anything that falls under “assisted living,” but they will pay for long term nursing care when the time comes. As someone else has said here, reaching out to the Alzheimer’s Association can yield some good information. I would also recommend talking to your grandmother’s doctor if they have a social worker that they work with that might be able to give you better local advice. You never know what aid might come out of the woodwork until you look for it, for example our city helps us pay for some of the aid services we use and we didn’t have to financially qualify, it’s available to any citizen who requires that type of care.

Since I assume your grandmother isn’t working anymore, would she be amenable to going to an adult day program? My MIL goes to one and thinks that she works there, not that she attends as someone needing care, so she enjoys going and feels like she has a purpose all while keeping her in a safe location while my husband and I are at work. If you don’t think she would go, would you benefit from an in home care aid? Maybe just someone that comes in and helps her clean or cooks her dinner one or more nights a week. The companionship can be beneficial, as well as relieving you of some of that burden, even if it’s just for a night. I know for us, losing the social life we had because of the care MIL needed was harder than anything else and even getting one night a week to go out with friends and be normal young people made a huge difference.

For the more immediate day to day questions and tasks, try a variety of solutions until you stumble on something that works. For example, we purchased a special digital clock that lists “Monday Morning, March 18, 2019, 8:00am,” in a large easily readable font, which has helped curb the amount of “what day is it” questions we were getting. See what physical aids work for her, labels, calendars, etc. If she’s worried about theft, take pictures of anything that is thrown away or donated that she might look for later on, “See grandma, you donated that shirt to goodwill last month.” And I know you mentioned that she has trouble taking pills correctly, maybe try a simple day of the week pill box and load them in yourself, or see if you can get her medications through an online service that will put them into pre dated pouches. That way all she has to do is open that morning’s packet and take everything inside instead of being in charge of her own bottles.

For the argumentative side, try to deflect to something else instead of trying to explain something rationally. Rationality and logic has left the conversation. So instead of saying “you’re wrong and here’s why” just lie gently and say “oh your doctor (or some other trusted person) said you should be doing X instead” or blame yourself “oh I’m sorry, I forgot you wanted to do that, let’s plan to do it next week” or ask for help “before we get to that I was wondering if you could help me with X.” You can placate her for the moment and chances are she’ll forget the whole thing before the issue comes back around. Also if she’s really fighting and being difficult, it might be time to speak to her doctor about some calming medications; she’s confused and anxious because of it, so it’s better to give her anti-anxiety meds than to be yelled at day in and day out.

Many people in the early stages believe that they are fine. Remember that the parts of her brain that still work ARE fine, and that the forgetfulness and paranoia is coming from a section of the brain that is damaged. The brain that is working KNOWS that she’s an adult with her life together, she’s been a fully functioning member of society for more than 60 years, and telling her she’s not creates anger (she’s being told this by her grandchild, someone she raised from infancy! Even normal non-dementia aging parents don’t like their children telling them they need help/can’t do certain things anymore.)

For the POA stuff, maybe try to bring it up like “we need this in place now while you’re well, just so if anything were to happen in the future I can help you,” not that it will be immediately necessary. Ask whomever you find locally for support/aid to help you find a lawyer that specializes in elder/end of life stuff, so you can make sure you have everything you need in place before she passes the point where she can sign for herself. (POA, medical directive, will, etc.) She may already have some of this, but it’s important that you know where it is and the information it contains.

I know this was a super long post, but I want to leave you with this. Don’t beat yourself up about anything. You mention feeling apathetic towards her, and that is completely understandable. You’re only 25 and that is very young to be the one in charge of something like this. Find a support system that works for you. Always remember to take care of yourself first, you aren’t going to be a good caregiver for her if you are bitter and resentful about everything she does or everything you have to do for her. Forgive yourself when you snap at her. Remember that it is the disease talking, not her. Alzheimer’s sucks, and it will get worse. And if you find that you can’t be a caregiver for her that’s ok too, don’t let anyone make you feel bad if the solution you come to is to put her in a home. People that haven’t gone through this might try to make you feel guilty, but they have NO IDEA what caring for someone with these issues can be like. Good luck with everything and again feel free to PM me if you have other questions or just want to talk to someone else going through this at a young age.
Hello, I am sorry you are going through this. You are very young to have this responsibility and are very mature in tackling these issues.  That is to be commended. 

Can you provide a general location? That way people can give more state specifics on where to turn. For example a great place to start in any US state is the Alzheimer’s association.  Then you will need to get POA as you mentioned; if not eventually you may have to get guardianship by the court system. 

She could be eligible for SS disability-it’s not fast/easy to get and is generally denied the first time you ask.  But again, local resources will be your best bet...even calling 211 for information on local elder services will help. 

Good luck, there are some excellent posts here on how to get started in lots of these areas. Scroll back a while and you should be able to find them if you’re not comfortable giving out a state (I’m guessing from your comments). 

(I edited an autocorrect.)
Glad you shared. Please keep sharing. Bottling it up will be your enemy and your grandmother needs you.  As it relates to her behavior toward you, please know (and remember) that it is her condition (whatever that turns out to be) and not her. I'm 4 years into caring for Mom and deal with this regularly. It is hard. But the realization that it's not her, it's her condition acting that way has helped me deal with it. I'd also recommend against correcting her--her reality is....well, her reality. Understanding this also helped me big time. Tactically speaking, it's easier said than done given the situation you describe but you really should do what you can to get POA and Healthcare Proxy situated as soon as possible. Whether it's you, or another family member who you trust, it needs to be done. Alzheimer's Association has lots of great resources to help. Talking with them was extremely helpful for me in this stage. Lastly, I'm not a support group person but they've been tremendous for me. You can see Alz Assoc's list here: [https://www.alz.org/events/event\_search?etid=2&cid=0](https://www.alz.org/events/event_search?etid=2&cid=0) . Best of luck to you and your family. 
I am so sorry you’re dealing with this. Alzheimer’s is an awful thing.  Don’t give up helping your grandma. She needs it now more than ever. Be sure to get yourself a good support system., because you need the support now more than ever too. Online support is great as well as local support. Contact your local Alzheimer’s association.  They have support groups you can join and can point you in the right direction to help with your other questions.  
One thing we did that I recommend alot, but might cost you some money was talk to a lawyer who specializes in elder care. This would be similar to a caseworker, and as someone else mentioned, is also a good idea, but a lawyer can also do alot of the work for you. They can also help you navigate government programs and will probably be able to help you sign her up for alot of these programs.
I agree with trying to get her enrolled in a long term care/coverage plan as soon as possible (if possible). This will help tremendously down the line w/ the expenses of what will probably eventually be her living in a memory care center. My dad was really mean at first (he’s been given a soft diagnosis of Lewy-Body Dementia at the age of 67; I say “soft” as we are awaiting the results from one more scan). Anyway, he wouldn’t take meds, wouldn’t eat, and was just downright nasty from Nov 2018-Feb 2019. Then he got a different medication (Remeron-not sure that I spelled that correctly) and has been having a lot more good days the last two months. I can’t imagine going through this at your age as I barley feel equipped to handle it now so I can’t offer anything insightful but I can let you know that there are a lot of us out here who do understand and do care so please keep in touch. My best to you and your grandma; you are both lovely, worthy people.
