It's a long test, on paper and oral, questions that tease out a lot of mental states-- depression, anxiety, dementia, narcissism, etc., etc.  There's no pain, but it can feel pretty depressing because you come up against the truth of memory loss.  
It's fun! Tell you Mom not to worry about it, but understand it helpful to see what she is good at and what area's she may have issues.

It was everything from the person reading me a story, and seeing what details I could recall.

Other times it was a list of twenty items and see what you could recall from that list.

I spent a good six hour day with my examiner, but time went by fairly quickly. We did a break (I brought a brown bag lunch).

I ended up meeting again for about four hours.

One I remember was a picture of a Pelican. I could say "bird" "bird that lives near the sea" "bird that scoops up fish" For the life of me Pelican didn't come to mind.  I had a few others. Joe Bidden was VP and kept thinking "Nice guy, reminds me of a Golden Retriever" but couldn't recall his name. 

For it gave a lot of great insight. I do much better with written versus verbal instructions. Harder time with conference calls (who said what, who asked for what) and a few other things. I was able to adjust my work and I'm still working and still happy.
Thank you for the info. My mom is getting it for dementia. I wonder if it will also get into the other stuff? 

If you don't mind answering, did you take the test yourself or was it a loved one? Just wondering about mental fatigue for a test that long. Doctor said she could split it into two days if necessary. I just don't want mental fatigue giving false results. 
What is the name of the test or is this a whole exam with different tests? I imagine a test lasting several hours for dementia patients very exhausting.  Besides, it's not very cost-effective.
My husband took it-- it will likely get into the other stuff because these things can sometimes combine to look like dementia. You know your mom best-- mental fatigue can come into it.  My husband becomes fatigued after a few questions these days.
Thank you.

I hope you and your husband are doing okay, as much as can be expected when dealing with dementia. Nothing prepared me for this, and my heart goes out to every person dealing with it in themselves or a loved one. 
