Hoyer lifts are easy to use! That’s a crying shame. We used one with my Dad, at home. 
In my area, the memory care facilities have a number of "outs" they use to require the family transfer the resident to a nursing facility.  They really only want the dementia resident if they're easy and pleasant to care for.   
Hello. I work in a facility that specializes in dementia. Unfortunately I see this a lot in my job, in fact we just had a resident move in last week who was in this exact same situation. That's how he ended up with us.

Unfortunately the answer I'm going to give you is one you probably won't like. It is unfortunately very common. My suggestion (and that of my boss) is that you find a facility who will use lifts. I'm not too sure on the regulations and I'm sure it varies from state-to-state, but in my area there aren't too many facilities that do use them. They usually ask people to leave when they get to that point.

Message me with any questions that you might have. I'll help however I can. Good luck and stay strong champ!!
Hello. Dementia care worker from the UK here. The dementia care home I work for has hoists of varying kinds we use for transfers and they're a common thing for us to use for several of our residents.

I'd like to point out that none of us are trained nurses and do not deliver nursing services of any kind beyond the administration of daily medication that isn't specialised. Our manual handling training covers the safe use of all the equipment used in transfers. And we update it every year to remain within legal safety requirements.

Our residents rarely go to nursing homes and will usually spend the rest of their days with us since we also provide end of life care as long as there is no need for IV drips or other nursing care. We have district nurses who will come for smaller needs to facilitate this.

Tldr. No that does not seem common from my experience but I would guess it is depending on the country of how procedures go. 
Check with your rights by state/city etc...

An ombudsman helps you know what your rights are. 

https://ltcombudsman.org/about/about-ombudsman
There was a resident in my dad's memory care unit who had a lift that was leased from a medical supply company.  I have no details on cost or if it was covered by Medicare.  
It really depends on state regulations. In my state, hoyers are only allowed in AL with home health or hospice on board.
I am memory unit director. Our unit is a self pay assisted living. You must be to do some of your own care. There are no hoyers.  I have had two assist. I have used hoyers for acute illnesses. If a resident isn't able to benefit from our daily programs, we also transfer them out. I hope this helps. 
There are quite a variety of dementia care facilities her. A very limited number are for ambulatory (walking/stable but with dementia -fun wandering.). Most around here are only suitable for bedridden or less able bodied.
Thank you for your reply! Do you see a benefit to finding a memory care facility with lifts instead of finding a nursing home? At this point I’m thinking of just looking for nursing homes since it will likely be easier to find. My other thought was to look for an adult foster care home that has lifts. 

It’s unfortunate that this home can’t accommodate lifts. I’m guessing the reason is it would require their staff to go through extra training? I can’t really imagine any other reason because I’ve seen a hoyer lift used in a hospital before and it seemed pretty easy. 
Sounds like dementia care in the U.K. might be a step ahead of care in the US. I wish care homes here were more accommodating. Furthermore, I wish they would have warned me about this situation from the beginning! I’ve had so many people tell me, “avoid moving your mom from home to home because she will have a hard time adjusting each time and will decline more quickly.” And now I’m finding out that I basically have no choice but to move her!! There are so many things I have learned throughout this experience that would have been helpful to know earlier.
They may be able to help with a list of places that provide the lift service.  Also if there is an Agency on Aging, they can help locate facilities.   I know my dad's memory care facility stopped short of any medical needs like IV but I think maybe they would only lift people who only needed assistance but who could still help.  They didn't have the capacity or set up to watch people who were bed ridden.  If they could get a them into a wheelchair and wheel them out to the common room for most of the day then it was ok but if they were in their rooms I don't think those people had good care at all.  

Unfortunately even if (s)he gets one the facility will probably refuse to use it 😕
Thank you for the work that you do and for checking in here.
Every situation is different and I don't have all the details about yours so I won't be able to give you the absolute best answer. But if it were me I would look for a facility that is assisted living and happens to age in place. That's what mine does, and the relief that people have when they hear that is pretty noticeable. You guys have so much to worry about, one less thing I guess.

As far as training? It's really simple we have two days a year that we go over transferring and lifts are part of that so it's not even its own separate thing. when new people come in we go over the basics and we make sure that they have somebody with them that knows what they're doing until they get the hang of it. I shouldn't compare different communities cuz every situation is different, but as far as transferring in our community? It's pretty simple
I'd argue that moving someone to improve their quality of care is more likely to have a good impact. There's been a few of our own residents who arrived after struggling to find the right care for a while who have settled in with positive results.

Don't be scared to make yourself heard and ask any and all questions you have in regards to the care she will get or what you can expect in the future. Never be afraid to learn more, but never forget dementia as different in each person.

Lastly I hope you do find a place where you can both feel at peace with. If you find yourself at a loss feel free to inbox me, I'll gladly help where I can. 
