YMMV, but my colleagues have been a tremendous support. Some things they've done which I've appreciated:

- no questions asked taken on little bits of my work when my mum has been in crisis and I've had to leave; not having to feel guilty about the caring work that I am doing right now is huge
- asked about my mum and *really* listened when I've spewed out honest answers (I can only imagine it's hard to hear); paradoxically, they've also given me space... If my response to, "how's your mum?" is, "oh... you know..." they don't press further
- brought in small treats for the office to share; even though it's not a gesture for me, specifically, it gives me strength to see kindness around me
- bringing me back a coffee/tea on a coffee run
- talking about the future (don't mean to be melodramatic, but...) as though I actually have one; I adore my mum, but it's really easy to be swept up in her fatalistic POV. Hearing things like (I'm a teacher), "next year, why don't we develop that course you've been thinking about?" or "I'd like to take students to the opera in the fall; would you like to come too?" has helped me to think about the future without the heavy burden of doing the planning

The one thing that my colleagues do that grates me to no end: endless declarations of, "I'm so sorry." I mean, I'm sure they are, but... It ceases to be a meaningful sentiment after a while. All the "I'm so sorry" statements in the world aren't going to bring my mum back, and eventually they just make me feel pitied. People's pity doesn't help me care for her. You know?

Hope this helps!
What a thoughtful post/question. As someone caring for a Mom living with Alzheimer's, thank you for thinking this way about your colleague and friend. Two suggestions--take them for what they are. 1) Just be 'present' and don't try and fix. Ask how she's doing and listen. Interact with her like you normally would beyond that. 2) Proactively do things that you think would help. Drop off dinner (without asking), pop by to take her dog for a walk, Bring over a bottle of wine and a movie, or drop off a bottle of wine and a book (not related to dementia or caregiving) that you think she'd enjoy, show up and offer to stay with her mom (give her respite).  These are just basic hypothetical ideas I offer without knowing your colleague. Don't ask her how you can help. Just try and help. Maybe it won't workout, but your colleague will appreciate it (probably now but definitely in the future). Best of luck to you and to your colleague. 
For me, it's showing me kindness even through my lowest moments. I was very aware how I was behaving around others while I was learning how to cope and live with the knowledge of what would inevitably happen to my mom, but I couldn't stop it. So then I was feeling guilty for being snappy and depressed at the same time as feeling the saddest I've ever been. All I needed at the time was love, understanding, and kindness. And a feeling that I was not burdening others with my problem. 

Also, avoid telling her who you've known who had dementia (unless she asks). It's not the same and never will be and she will know that. It's more of a slap in the face even though the intentions are good. It inadvertently might invalidate her own grief and could make her feel isolated. That's what happened to me. 
Don't second guess.  One of the most difficult things caregivers face is people who judge them (usually family members) but don't really know the situation.  (And you can't know the situation unless you're right there in it 24/7.)  Non judgemental listening and concern for HER is the best gift. 
You are incredibly kind. 
In late here. 

Don't ask anymore how the patient is doing. Ask how she is holding up. How the patient is doing will come up naturally. But honestly, that's not the issue anymore.

Not to overstep any boundaries but get pushy. And I'm aware what a tightrope walk that can be. If you can't think of anything, ask "what can I do right now that will make YOU feel better?".

You're obviously a good person. You'll do just fine. 
This is so helpful thank you!
I guess the takeaway message is to actually care and not “pretend” to care :)
What's YMMV?
Just want to bump up this message. Don't ask how you can help, just help. Caregiving can be exhausting work, and while I know that I appreciate offers of help I'm often too tired to be able to think through what I need and then articulate that to others. Matt here has it spot on.
Matt, that's excellent. Amazing really. 
This is actually very helpful, thank you so much.
From someone who’s never dealt with this it really helps to understand mentally what carers go through. 
I don’t know when you personally went through this (or if you still are) but sending you lots of love💕
Short for: your mileage may vary. 

In this instance, I just meant that what works for me may not work for others. :-)
