Well, to be fair, she’s not wrong about being “locked up in an institution.”

But anyway, you have to handle the situation by subterfuge. You can get the electricity turned off in the apartment where she is living and tell her you are taking her to a hotel while they fix it. 
One thing we did was have her room set up with all of her stuff before she got there. We made sure the blanket she uses was on her bed, the pictures she had by her nightstand were hung, etc. There was still a big adjustment and I gather it will be the same for your sister. We also left notes around the room. One of the notes said, “ I am at XXXX home because I need get strong. Lux7 lives down the street and will visit often. I can also call her.” The reality is that she is never going home but she will forget it anyhow.  Not much but hope it helps. 
No problem. Just remembering stuff we did in the week that she moved there. Stuff we wish we would have had all set up beforehand but you learn as time goes on. Hope the list helps

1. Set up cable in her room if possible before hand. Have magazines and books. She may not be able to read them but she can browse them. 

2. Give out her new address to friends and loved ones. 

3. Invite people to visit - I know it’s important to not have a ton of people visit the first week and then no one the following weeks so if you can, schedule them out some time.

4. Tell aides and nurses about her likes/dislikes. I attached a note to the outside of the door that only the nurses would see. It really helped the nurses start a good dialog and allowed my grandmother to connect, if only for a few minutes. I actually saw this tip on Reddit. 

Good luck. It’s going to be tough and emotionally draining but it will be worth it knowing she is safe and taken care of. 




I just wanted to update my situation.

The move went better than expected, but was still one of the more unpleasant experiences of my life.  It was definitely a huge benefit to have her stuff and her cat moved and set up in the new place before her arrival.  She was really angry initially, but calmed down by the end of the day and has been doing well.  She still talks about going "home" to her old apartment, but she seems to like where she is at.

&#x200B;

So I'm hopeful for the long-term that she will adjust and we are all just really happy that she's getting the care and supervision she needs.
That's a good and interesting suggestion, thank you.
Thank you!  We are planning to have all her stuff setup in her new place beforehand - the notes are a great addition to that.
Yw!
