Firstly, my condolences about your uncle.   
Regarding your grandma, her reality is now a very different reality, and hearing over and over again that her son has passed away will be very upsetting.   


When we dealt with this with my mother, we would deflect the conversation to something else as much as possible. In your particular case, I understand that that would be difficult as you're all grieving him yourself. Perhaps it might be easier to have a very short statement that's not too hard to say so she can't pick up on the sadness, such as 'he's gone to the shops and will be back soon'.   


You'll really need to play it by ear, but I'm certain that telling her the truth will be more hurtful to her every single time. This is not about lying, this is about keeping your grandmother happy and feeling cared for and safe.   


Remember, she's not giving you a hard time, she's having a hard time.   


You will get through this.   


&#x200B;
Within our family it’s so much easier to tell a story to our Mom. 

One of our sisters died very recently. She was only 52 and had 7 children. We don’t want to explain every 5 minutes that’s she’s dead because IT HURTS. Especially when she keeps asking the kids where their mom is. And it doesn’t help Mom either. 

Our Dad died just before our sister, and it’s all too much. 

Mom’s carer is our youngest sister. Whenever she’s not in the room Mom asks about her non-stop. Like she’s lost her security blanket. 

Mom developed dementia over the last year. As she gets worse it becomes easier to “lie” to her because I see it as maintaining her comfort and happiness. What does it really matter? She’ll never get her memory back. I want her to be happy in the time she has left. 

This is a sad road. Keep your spirits up however you can. 
The overwhelming majority of experts will advise you against breaking her heart over and over again by telling her he’s deceased. Find a good lie and stick with it...it will get easier with time. 

Biggest of hugs to you. A very tough place for your family to be in. I’m sorry for your loss.  
This does sound like a really tricky situation.  I'm sorry for your loss. :-(

My guess: what is hard for her is that it takes her a few hours to accept her new reality without your uncle.  After a few hours, everyone around her seems to be more calm because they aren't reacting to her behavior, life starts feeling "normal" for her again.  In her version of "normal", your uncle is still around, so she wonders where he is.

If I were in your shoes, and if the grief weren't too much for me to bear, I would try to make sure she continually remembers that your uncle for the whole day for the next few days.  Share what you all loved about your uncle, and then constantly punctuate it by reminding her that he's gone and that everyone will miss him.  Help reset "normal" for her.

It may seem cruel to keep bringing him up just as she starts to seem calm, but she needs help developing a new "normal".  Her new "normal" has a family that loves her and is trying to figure out the best thing for her.  The things to distract her with could be to help take the really bad outcomes off the table by telling her "you won't be homeless; we will make sure you have a safe and comfortable home", and then switch the topic back to how much everyone will miss your uncle.

What has to be tough for you all is that it sounds like she still has the capacity to understand "normal", but hasn't yet come to accept that she doesn't have a useful role to play as a decision-making peer in deciding her future.  She isn't a peer in those conversations because her memory is too far gone to be helpful, but your uncle was probably good at making her feel like a peer.  Part of celebrating your uncle could be celebrating the life that the two of them had together, where she felt like a peer.

I hope this is useful.  This has to be a tough time for you, but I hope it works out.
My father died a year ago.  My mother, who'd been married to him for 61 years, is hallucinating his presence.   It sucks.

Contradicting a demented person doesn't help.   When you contradict them, they re-experience the grief, *and then they forget it all over again*.   This is hard both on you and on your grandma.

A thing about dementia that sucks:  You need to start lying to the demented relative.  I do mean "need".   When telling the truth causes 30 minutes of grief, followed by complete forgetfulness of the grief, all you're doing is tormenting both yourself and the demented person.   Lie.  Say "Oh, he's just run out on an errand.  He'll be back."  Redirect the conversation.  Telling the truth doesn't benefit anybody.
Thanks! I'll try that next time - the problem is that she's very intelligent and tends to see through it when we say he'll be back soon. She asks what time he'll be back, what's he gone to buy at the shop, why didn't he take her with him etc. If we try and lie, she requires so much detail that it's hard to keep the lie going. I think we'll have to come up with a really detailed scenario and see if that helps. I asked a few charities and they all told us to be honest with her as much as possible for that reason.

And trust me, I know she's having a hard time. She's grieving just as we all are. It's odd because her grief takes a form which on the surface appears shallow (she only asks about what will happen to her, rather than talking about him) but that's just the way that her dementia makes her process the loss. It's difficult because it makes her the centre of everything when we all just want to cry about what we've lost. I don't resent her for it, but hopefully that makes a bit more sense as to why we're struggling. 
> The overwhelming majority of experts ...

Can you provide a citation for this?  In my experience having my mother live with me for a few months during a tough time in her dementia, and having read/discussed quite a bit as my siblings and I struggled with a care plan, this advice seems counter to my experience.  More importantly, it sounds contrary to the advice that the OP received from the charities they spoke with.  My hunch is that those conversations had more bi-directional information flow, and that the OP's pool of charities have seasoned experts of their own.  I'd be careful about dismissing their experts and confidently relaying the view of your preferred experts who agree that finding a good lie and sticking with it is the best approach.

I think the type of dementia and the current state of the OP's grandmother matters in choosing strategy. Based on the OP's description, she reminds me of my mom from a few years ago.  It sounds like the OP's family is having a tough time finding a comfortable lie, and that the OP's grandma still too smart to believe the lie, and too inquisitive to give it a rest.  Moreover, it doesn't sound like a grief loop that she's stuck in when the truth comes out.  It's a "what happens to me?" and "what happens to my house?" loop.  Like I said in one of my other comments, my advice is to help the OP's grandma grieve the loss of her son and the loss of her old life with her son as the family figures out how to deal with everyone's new life without him.

This is great advice, thank you!
I wonder if it’s better that the story has him away for a more extended time than a short trip to the store? Maybe something where he goes on a trip for vacation or business, and the family is there to take care of her while he’s away? I’m just trying to think of something where she wouldn’t expect to go with him or be back within a very short time.
Ah - I guess that's the hardest thing about this disease - it effects everyone in different ways.  


There were some periods in my mum's illness that we couldn't get around and just had to get through (the paranoia stage being the hardest).   


I can certainly understand your struggle more after reading your reply. I'm not sure if I agree with the charities' recommendations, but considering what you've said, I'm not sure if I agree with my own recommendations. It's a real pickle. You certainly seem to have your head on your shoulders, and I hope someone who has gone through very similar circumstances has advice that hits the nail on the head.
That's really, really hard.  I'm so sorry.
It's called "therapeutic lying." For many health care providers it can be an ethically sticky area, but "white lies" and "deflection" are widely considered the most compassionate path in memory care. [There's plenty of scholarly research about it,](https://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&as_sdt=0%2C38&as_vis=1&q=therapeutic+lies+dementia+care&btnG=) plus mainstream articles (/u/teashoesandhair, you may find something helpful for you and your situation in these articles):

[Therapeutic Lying: A Contradiction in Terms](https://www.psychiatrictimes.com/couch-crisis/therapeutic-lying-contradiction-terms) (Psychiatry Today)

[Therapeutic Lying to Comfort Loved Ones With Dementia](https://health.usnews.com/health-news/patient-advice/articles/2016-04-15/therapeutic-lying-to-comfort-loved-ones-with-dementia) (US News & World Report)

[The Comforting Fictions of Dementia Care](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2018/10/08/the-comforting-fictions-of-dementia-care) (The New Yorker)

[Telling the truth to people with dementia](https://www.alzheimers.org.uk/get-support/daily-living/making-decisions-telling-truth) (Alzheimers Association)

['Therapeutic Lying' and Other Ways To Handle Patients With Dementia](https://www.wsj.com/articles/SB110012626318870633) (Wall Street Journal)

I'm very sorry you went through something similar with your mother. We all try to give out loves ones our best for their situation, and that "best" and "situation" varies for every case. 
@vingverm - I agree it's a struggle to deal with someone going though the paranoid stage.  When my mom was going through her paranoid stage, we ended up bending the truth about all sorts of little things.  It was tempting to lie to her a lot more.

However, it seems simple to agree with the charities' advice on the death of her son/guardian. I imagine these charities give advice to all sorts of people who try crazy lies to bend reality when something awful like the death of caregiver (who is one of her children).  This is not a mundane matter that is better swept under a rug. It's a profoundly life changing event, and it's a new reality that she's going to need to adjust to.

When my dad died, and all of us kids were scattered all over the U.S., and his burial plot was over 200 miles from where he died (in my mother's original home town where he and my mother agreed they wanted to be buried), it was very tempting to focus our funeral planning around his burial (at the possible expense of being unable to get my mother to the funeral). But I'm glad we had his open-casket funeral in the city where he died, 30 miles from where my mother and my brother currently live.  She was on the tail end of her paranoid phase, so we still worried that she wouldn't accept that he was gone. It might have been luck, but she seemed to accept he was gone, and that no one was faking it or lying.

I can't imagine what we would have done if she thought we were lying to her about his death, and I *certainly* can't imagine how we could have gotten away with suggesting he was still alive.  The charties' advice to the OP about avoiding lies seems wise to me.
Thanks for the sources. You're right that this bibliography is potentially more helpful to /u/teashoesandhair than it is for me at this point.  My brief skim of the material led me to find another piece:

* ["What is truth? An inquiry about truth and lying in dementia
care"](https://www.mentalhealth.org.uk/publications/what-truth-inquiry-about-truth-and-lying-dementia-care). *Mental Health Foundation*. 2016-12-13

I haven't had the time to read the materials at this page, but in short, it was an 18-month inquiry completed in 2014 by a panel of experts assembled by the Mental Health Foundation regarding the use of lying in dementia patient care.  They define and name several grades of a spectrum from "whole truth-telling" to "looking for alternative meaning" to "distraction" to "going along with" to "lying".  They recommend biasing toward "whole truth-telling", while cautiously acknowledging that steps toward "lying" may be necessary in certain contexts.

Thank you for the bibliography on therapeutic lying (and for introducing me to that term).  

