It does sound like dementia to me and seems like she's had it for a while since it's progressed this much. First a diagnosis would help but also she needs antipsychotics (at least) to manage the behaviour. There's really no other way around it. 
Could be that, or something else.  Could be as simple as malnutrition.  At any rate, I'd get her checked out as soon as you can.
My grandmother has Dementia and has had it for few plus years and she used to be convinced that people were breaking into her house. She would get so upset at my grandfather when he would tell her that no one had broken in. She doesn’t really do that anymore but she does see people that aren’t there and she hears voices and just the other day she told me that her house was infested with rats because she could her them scurrying around. Once they latch onto something when suffering from this disease there’s no use trying to convince them otherwise you just have to get creative with trying to deter those thoughts. She definitely needs a diagnosis and then hopefully they can put her on something that can at least help her some. My grandmother is on Ativan to try to keep her calm when she starts getting riled up about something. I personally don’t think it helps that much but she has an appointment coming up in a couple of weeks which we’re going to talk to her doctor about a different medication because she is wearing us out she’s in a stage now where she is just going nonstop up and down from morning til night then maybe an hour of rest then back at it again. 
Has she ever been diagnosed as having dementia? I would start by having her tested for a UTI. In the elderly, oftentimes the only symptoms they have of a UTI are dementia-like.
Also, have her vitamin b12 levels checked. It’s common for older people to have vitamin deficiencies that can cause these symptoms. 

Is she spending too much time alone? Isolation can cause someone to “lose it”. 

Focus on the small things first. Antipsychotics should be a last resort- especially for someone with no history of mental illness.

In fact, antipsychotics are not even recommended for persons with dementia as they can make symptoms worse.


Call Adult Protective Services to report her for self-neglect, maybe they can help.
Vivid and long-lasting hallucinations have been one of my sister's main symptoms with her early-onset Alzheimer's. Anti-psychotic meds have helped some but haven't eliminated them. Best of luck to your family. 
My mother is only 67 and dealing with this. The Neurologist will tell you, she's not capable of living alone anymore. Depending on your state/country, all you need is the doctor to diagnose dementia to file for POA. If she doesn't qualify for in home care assistance via her insurance or government programs, she will need someone to live with or a living facility of some sort. She can become a danger to herself and others. She believes these things are true and you cannot convince her otherwise. If she's locking herself inside and refusing to leave, think about what would happen if there was a fire. 
I’m thinking to bring her to geriatrics hoping they can prescribe her antipsychotic. We brought her to psychiatric once, but she threw away all the medication because she believes she doesn’t have any psychotic problems. 
We think it was probably due to the shock after her brother passed away. She used to live with him, now she lives alone. 
But we’ll bring her for a whole check up just in case. She refuses to take medications, so a general check up sounds more convincing. 
Thank you for your reply! :) 
Well you're gonna have to convince her that that medication is something different. No person with dementia think they're psychotic. 
Sometimes a stressful/traumatic experience can trigger delirium (and underlying dementia could make this worse/make it more likely to trigger delirium). UTI can also cause delirious-like symptoms in some patients, as mentioned above. I would get this checked out, especially if the onset was quite sudden. If it is an infection it could clear up quickly with antibiotics :) 

&#x200B;

P.S. When my grandpa was delirious we crushed up the meds into apple sauce and he took it with (mostly) no problem! 
Its gradual onset of dementia, dont see signs of delirium. It has been more than 2 years now. I don’t see signs of infections either. We just built her a mosquito tent on her bed to convince her to not sleep in a paperbox. We’ll hopefully bring her for medication treatment. Thank you for your reply! :) 
