You're not being selfish. I think the fact that your grandma is telling you to go back instead of going there herself, or that she didn't stick around with you during your first visit, speaks for itself. 
I'm sorry you had that experience but the thing to remember is that it is the dementia, maybe if he gets used to seeing you even if you took someone along he might settle a little 
I am so sorry that happened to you. That must have been awful. There are a lot of things about this disease to cause distress, and that has to be one of the worst. Especially from family.

In the end, no one can tell you what to do, but here is what i think for what it is worth. It definitely is the dementia. The racism is pretty common, i noticed it in my mom early on too. Because its the dementia and not the person to blame, what you really need to consider is how you feel about this person. He is no longer the person he was and won't miss you if you don't go see him. 

&#x200B;

The only people here that matter then, are you and the people you care about. What would be the impact on the people you love, if you don't see him any more? Would it hurt your parent who is related to him or your grandma? Would it be painful to you not to see him again? He doesn't sound like a close relative, probably not even to your parent who is related to him - just your grandma. To me that means, that your parent won't be hurt if you don't go, you won't be hurt if you don't go and he won't be hurt if you don't go. The only possibility is that it will hurt your grandma. 

&#x200B;

If there is any chance you will regret not spending more time with him even with the disease making him hurtful, then by all means do what you can to spend time with him. If there is any chance you will regret hurting your parent or grandparent by not going to see him, then weigh that against the pain he causes you and let that inform your choice. But there is no point in going for his sake, he won't know you or remember you. 
Bumping up what all others have said. You're definitely not being selfish. Definitely not. 
