It's tough to help someone when they won't accept or ask for help from anyone. There are resources online such as [Aging Care](https://www.agingcare.com/topics/60/caregiver-support) that can provide resources to care givers.

I would also suggest, trying to find someway to help without asking your mother's permission. If she is having trouble paying the bills, if you can afford it, chip in without asking her. Maybe you can pay a portion of the monthly bills. 

Other things you can do I would suggest would be to help her at home. Do things for her like laundry, dishes, making dinner. Small things like these that she won't ever ask for, but you can just do would be a huge help.

As I caregiver myself I can tell you it's really hard to ask for help. You feel like a failure and that you don't want to put your burden on anyone else. These are some of the reasons your mother may never ask for help. So instead of asking, just do, if it is withing your power.

I don't know your full situation, so I can't comment further, but if you would like to discuss more please feel free to DM me.
Talk to an elderly affairs lawyer!!!!! Or two!!!!1
Perhaps your mother's just venting? Idk what your situation is like

I worked as an aide in a less-than-ideal place and now do a job thats basically caregiving too. For like three years of my young, young life I've done caregiving work... also as a male it can sometimes feel awkward somehow..... mercifully not often. Anyway. And  both jobs adding up to those three years I worked with really really dependent people, on people where you can't turn your head for a second. It's a lot. Give your mom space to breathe? I'm not saying you've done anything wrong whatsoever, I'm honestly just thinking out loud
[deleted]
Sounds exhausting as hell. Detatching is easier said than done but might prove necessary. Time to have a cna when you can. Sorry. I hear ya. That's a whole lot of change. Well.....
When I say deataching I mean you detaching from the situation of what theyre both going through and the tough ol' bird detaching from the careginv work.... easier said than done
She can’t detach I’m begging her to let him go a little bit
