It can be.   I would make an appointment with her doctor to see if there's something she can take that would help, because it must be awful to wake up so sad.

Perhaps memories of people now gone or dreams of younger days are making her sad for what is lost.   Have you noticed if there is anything that helps her to stop crying?  Playing happy, familiar music?  Talking about the past?  

I have noticed an emotional shift in my own mother, too.  I try and help with sweet or fun distractions.   But again, I would check with her doctor.  I'm sorry your mom feels so badly and doesn't know why.
Pseudobulbar Affect possibly ? Plenty of patients have had good results in some stages with this medication or possibly simply the disease as this happens yo my own parent.
My father was like that.  He was started on an antianxiety medication and has been much better since then.
Brother please consult with a psychiatrist. My father has dementia and from there he got clinically depressed and couldn't stop crying. He was diagnosed with depression disorder and was given a lot of anti depressant. 

Please consult a psychiatrist.
My mother gets like that when she hasn't had enough sleep.
So they increased her lexapro but also put her on a small dose of Risperdal.  She’s a new woman. Yay big pharma❤️
Thanks. She was on Ativan and her drs took her off because they said it made confusion worse. But I think she’s crossed over into a phase that it’s better to take it
She’s on an antidepressant. She has a check up this week I’ll discuss changing it or increasing it
Benzodiazepines can have paradoxical reactions in those with dementia. It may cause them more anxiety, agitation, and confusion. Plus they become a greater fall risk on benzos.

(https://youtu.be/GxpfqlTJFUM)
Have them try a different one.  They all affect someone differently.
Alright man. My father's speech capabilities were also very reduced. When he could not describe a pain acutely he would express that discomfort with crying. Think babies, have to figure out what's wrong.
