Anxiety may or may not be from the dementia itself, but as you say may be a result of depression from understanding her own decline in health. Did they perform any tests at the memory clinic which may have shown any signs towards any diagnosis (other than ordering a head scan)?

If she's not in danger of not being able to cope in a safe environment (ie. her own home) and with normal daily activities, I wouldn't worry until the official diagnosis. I understand it may be hard to just sit down, wait and see. After that, especially if she continues to be reclusive and/or even not cope with given help, I would talk with a professional about medication. I've always thought that if a medicine makes your life more enjoyable or includes you in more positive experiences, you should consider it.

I'm sorry I can't be of more help, it's really hard without specific symptoms. About the legal stuff I cannot say, since I am not familiar with the laws in England.

I am not a native English speaker and just a nurse working with the elderly, so keep that in mind when considering my advice.
I wish you and your whole family the best!
[deleted]
There's so many things to start looking in to and get sorted you'd indeed be best of getting professional help where they can tailor answers to specific needs. The problem with dementia is that it varies so much from person to person and every family as well is different. You said you're in England so that's at least a good start. Support here is very available and through my training I've been made aware of:

https://www.alzheimers.org.uk

https://www.ageuk.org.uk

A lot of questions and directions can be found through these organisations. Don't be afraid to ask anything you think of even if you fear it's a silly question. You deserve to know what you can do and what to expect. Arm yourself.
My Mother has severe anxiety with her dementia - we think it's related to her not knowing what to do - or not understanding the plot of a show, or not understanding the conversation between two other people in the room: that will trigger the anxiety attack.  It's like What's wrong w/ me spiral?  she actually has described "deja vu" or even an disassociation/depersonalization.  She says it's not describable.    I've been reading that disassociation is a brain defense mechanism against severe anxiety.
So I don't think it's directly related to the disease, but a result of the losses she is experiencing.  We have had some success with lorazapam when it comes over her. 

For us, she has been slipping for a while, and like you her world is getting smaller.  Like 2 years ago, she didn't want her sister to visit - that was so strange, but now looking back, her world has needed to get smaller and smaller for her to manage.  Best to you
Thank you for your reply. They did simple tests like her birthday remembering her siblings names, asked her about specific things that had gone on in her lifetime like prime minister's names and royal marriages. They asked her to remember an address at the beginning of the test them asked her to recall it at the end and she got about half of it right
Thank you
Thank you so much, this will be a good start
Thank you for your reply. Honestly I wasn't prepared for your message, you'll never know how much reading it meant to me, just to know it's not just happening to me, thank you so much
You're so welcome, also I learned a lot from a video called ' what is dementia', by teepa snow on YouTube.  I think it's about 30 minutes long but well worth the watch, it was a very good primer.  It's weird how now that we know she has a diagnosis and we Look Backwards it seems like things make more sense, like she used to always buy me these great shirts for Christmas, but then it seemed like I started getting cologne, and then last year I got like three different kinds of cologne for Christmas.
