The handholding removes the loneliness .  Her spirit can feel the loving energy surrounding her.  There is an inner knowing and acceptance .  You are a courageous human being .
It would be very hard to give an absolute answer to this. I've held the hands of several declining residents in my job and if she seems peaceful. She very likely is. There maybe isn't much comprehension left but she grips your hand. No matter how much she may have forgotten or can no longer understand. She understands that your presence is a comfort. Even people with dementia retain a level of their emotions towards someone. A famous quote I learned early in my career is "They may not remember your name but they will remember how you made them feel"

I admire your strength and love for your grandmother and I wish you all the best in difficult times. Those stories are a treasure to keep.
I don't have a sense of the Mystery involved with our souls as we prepare to leave our bodies, but I can only imagine that our souls are freed from dementia when they are in that space between this world and the next. Think about the wonderful gift you are giving her soul as it prepares to move on to whatever is next. You are doing great.
my grandmother might be in the 'early stages" of the "final stages." I don't think she knows much of anything. She's not the person she used to be. She can't communicate or feed herself and just lies there, usually scowling. I don't think she knows she's dying because I don't think she has any concept of death (or anything) anymore. I would like it to happen sooner rather than later because I believe this is not a life worth living in anyway. Please take comfort in the fact that any bad things she's going through will be over soon and she will be at peace. This disease is an absolute monster and I wish you good luck and strength.
Try your best to just be there in the moment and be there for her. I think they do have a sense of what's happening but I think often times they're ready. Do your best to be calm....but we know you're human. Just be in the moment and be present. That's about all anyone can ask.
I know they can feel pain from my grandmother being hurt once. She  was nonverbal at that point but lived another 2 years. The doctors said she was extremely healthy in all but her mind. 
As someone with early onset, I'm scared that I will end my life too soon or too late.
I think they can tell they are losing everything progressively but there is nothing they can do about it, and since the disease spreads over a long time they are getting kind of used to the process. My grand mother knows she is forgetting, at first she was trying to hide it, she knew, and she found it annoying. She still finds her confusion somehow annoying now but has learned to enjoy the present and what she can enjoy. As long as she is in a good environment.
