I get it. I took care of my gma for a decade and then helped her through hospice in our living room. What you're feeling is totally normal. And congrats on the new gig! It helped me to remember that she would want me to go out and live my life, but it was weird to go from that to working. Mostly good weird, but weird. Just be kind to yourself. Try not to throw yourself into the job; give yourself free time to refind yourself and grieve. And, if you need to, talk to people at your new gig since there's overlap. I went to work for a doc's office, and I loved it, but I did have days that weirdly triggered my grief. If you find yourself starting to struggle, youight also consider therapy. Not necessarily a grief counselor, but someone who can help you transition from one role/life to the next.
I’m so sorry for your loss. Losing my grandma who was like my mom and my best friend was one of the hardest things I’ve ever been through. You’re strong and she’s in a better place now (if you believe that). You did good by her.
I am sorry for your lose, and congratulate you on moving forward with your love of caretaking!!!!
I'm sorry for your loss. You and your grandmother were lucky to have each other. She is probably proud of you continuing to care for those in need--just make sure you take care of yourself physically and mentally especially because feelings regarding the recent passing of your grandmother might take you by surprise or manifest in ways you wouldn't expect at any given moment, in particular when you're doing similar caregiving tasks for someone else. All the best...
You have my deepest sympathy for your loss. I to looked into caregiving but decided to hold off bc the emotional toll it takes on me. I feel I just wasnt ready mentally to deal with a caregiving position
No one deals with grief in the exact same way. There is no handbook, there is only you. You are the only thing you have right now, so take care of you!

Grief changes us completely. Our world is shattered. We lose a part of our self, our identity, our sense of purpose.

If you feel like this job gives you a sense of purpose, then that is a beautiful discovery! You are allowed to do whatever you want during the grieving process. No one will judge you. If they do, drop them from your life and block them.

It sounds like you are excited for your opportunity. Keep up the momentum! If anything, use her death as impetus to push you in the right direction in your life.

It might even be so much easier as you have no prior history with the person in your care.

You are a kind soul for always putting the needs of your grandmother first. She loves that about you and always will. So, maybe this is her way of guiding you to a new career path because she loved you so much and saw the light in you. Just like we do <3

Everything will be okay. You are all you need right now. You are enough. Progress not perfection. One day at a time. One hour at a time. One minute at a time. One second at a time. 

It is completely normal if you see no plans for the future. That's just our brain's way of telling us to slow down, sit with our thoughts, recognize our emotions-- survival mode basically. 

We evolved enough where our brains do shut down in times of trauma in grief. Just educate yourself about trauma, grief, death, and mortality. That way, you can learn to identify whether your own thoughts are destructive, scared, wanting a way out in order to experience more in life. 

As caretakers, so often we give up our own happiness in making sure our loved ones can do simple tasks like even use the bathroom. This makes us martyrs and yet somehow blessed (I hope) for our own self-sacrifice. 

The final step in dealing with them transitioning over to a lifeless body, is living how they wanted to see you achieve the ultimate success (whatever it is that is meaninful to you) in life.
I'm sorry for your loss. You did a wonderful thing for your grandmother. We all deal with grief differently - what's too fast for someone else could be just right for you. You're gonna be ok, you've already proven you're strong and kind. Best wishes in everything.
Thank you everyone. I took the step and went to the interview. It went well. I’m not sure I will get the job since I am not as qualified as some of the other people.  But I’m glad I went it helped me realize it is the right path. I will remind my self to take it minute by minute. And to take care of myself when needed. I am so thankful for this thread; it has helped me a couple times while I was taking care of my grandma.
Thank you so much I really needed this. I do really enjoy helping others and helping my grandma helped me think about pursing it as a career. I know she would love to see me helping others and making them smile like I did with her. I think my feelings are just slowly creeping up on me. I have had other loved ones pass away but I was not as close to them.
