I'm not sure how advanced she is. My mother can eat solid food and chew still, but finds it easier to eat with her fingers, so something like fruit cocktail, she eats with her hands instead of a spoon. And she doesn't do well with crumbly things, like a scone - she'll break it into pieces and most of it lands on her shirt or in her lap. 

So something that isn't too wet or crumbly, that can be popped in the mouth is ideal for my mother. Small sliced pinwheel sandwiches on flatbread, maybe held together with cream cheese might work. Cherry tomatoes or grapes. Maybe search Finger Foods for Parties for ideas. And of course if she can drink shakes with or without a straw, that opens up the world of smoothies and protein drinks.
The brand Pirate's Booty has a corn-pop that is very like popcorn, but without the kernel. She might like that.
Try looking around the grocery store...I can't think of a way to describe it but I know there's snacks that have the taste of popcorn but they aren't exactly like popcorn....in the chip aisle.

Is choking an issue? I wasn't sure if she's on soft foods....I may be able to advise more. Is she just not interested or having a hard time eating?
SOUPS! get a food processor and making soups and bisques is so easy, and easy to make healthy/ nutritious and even if/ when she gets to a point of not being able to chew or eating around the chunks in the soup a bisque will be perfect for a meal and smoothies for breakfast. 

a lot of people with AD will end up really liking either sweet or salty things and only wanting that, and theres some good tricks for hiding filling food in sweet stuff if she only wants to eat candy!
We used a kitchen apron on Mom during meal times to catch crumbs and food that would inevitably fall on her lap.
Pudding was good for crushing up medications and easy to swallow. She also liked thin milkshakes and ice cream. 
At a certain point it became more about having her eat anything versus worrying about healthy foods so she could get any calories.
Very small bites and feeding her ourselves was the plan for awhile before she stopped eating altogether.
Big cups with long straws helped with drinking.
Good luck. :)
my grandmother used to love gruel every morning.
Thank you for the suggestions, I really appreciate it!
Great idea, thank you!
