You aren’t being selfish or an asshole. Can you have both parents walk you down the aisle or maybe your dad and another person you are close to?
Could your Dad be at the front of the aisle waiting for you to come down.  Could you take his arm, let him be the one to "hand you over" to your fiance?  Having him at the wedding is special.  Let him give a speech.  Have your brother/cousin/uncle lined up to jump in when the rambling (and confusion) starts with an enthusiastic, "Yes! my man that was excellent!" This person can gently take the mic and finish the speech, standing by your Dad the whole time.  It may seem worrisome now but many years from now when you watch that video you well be so thankful that he was a part of your ceremony.
you’re not an asshole, i would let him do it if he wants to. just make sure he really wants to! if he’s physically capable of walking, and theres someone at each end of the aisle to direct him he’ll be fine. youll be at the start to take his arm and guide him. have someone else like your mom wait off to the side at the end to immediately take his other arm and guide him away when you reach the alter. all should go smoothly. as long as he can walk 50 feet in a straight line alz shouldnt affect this (unless he suddenly forms a habit of shouting randomly or something which is unlikely)
that is a real concern BUT think about this ... years from now how bad would you feel seeing him in a home and pre-Alzheimer's dad didn't have that opportunity.  I took my mom who was in the middle stages to a friend's wedding and my cousin dad was in the party wandering but had a handler.  AND sorry, if your friend's and guest can't handle your dad's condition  ... (which surprisingly my family did very well with my mom but then again they were always a bit crazy)  then in reality you might want to check your guest list a bit more closely
My dad has late stage Alzheimer's and I opted to have my mom walk me. Dad can still walk. But I figured it would be easier to have him sit with my brother. I was disappointed because it was something I had envisioned. But I used this opportunity to have other close people step in and split the duties. Still went awesome and had a great time.

It's ok to feel sorry for yourself because you can't get that experience. The disease robs everyone of so much. No you aren't an asshole. It's normal.
One thing I've learned about weddings is... it doesn't matter what you do or don't do; people are there to celebrate you, and be happy for you. They won't notice or remember if you skip something. (and if they do - they are giant assholes, screw 'em.)   


So don't worry about tradition.  If you don't want the stress of your dad walking you down the aisle - then don't! Do your own thing! Get your whole family to walk you down the aisle as a group, and then direct your dad back to his seat, or you walk him to his seat after going down the aisle, or skip the walk with him all together and just stop at his seat to give him a hug. Don't want to have him give a speech?  Then don't have him do a speech! Maybe you give HIM a speech, instead, or skip it all together. Whatever. Doesn't matter. Do the wedding that is easy and comfortable for you, and it'll all be great.    


If someone is giving you grief about it -- tell them your worries, and ask them to help you come up with creative solutions to involve him that are within his capabilities, so they feel like they're helping.  


I was really worried about my father at my wedding, because he is a gregarious outgoing guy but at the time was having a lot of difficulty interacting with people because following conversation was becoming so difficult for him. He used to be a photographer, so I asked him to be my wedding photographer.  It gave him a reason to talk to and interact with people, but also a graceful exit when conversations became difficult ; he felt wanted, needed, and part of the day, in a way that I don't think he would have otherwise.  Sure, the pictures were on the whole awful, but so what?  


I'm sure my situation isn't the same as yours - he was still fairly functional, and ours was a very casual picnic wedding - but maybe there is something else you can ask your dad to do to help him feel like an important part of the day, while taking off some of the stress off of both of you.
What are your concerns? Embarrassment? Safety? Do your guests know his diagnosis?
