Your grandmother, if American, should qualify for medicaid/medicare and potentially she has social security if her estate is truly drained.

This is something that needs looking into because most elderly adults get a monthly government check. If your family is getting that money and spending it on things other than her care, then you've got a big problem, but it seems doubtful to me your grandmothers is truly SOL, more like she's being horribly, horribly taken advantage of.

&#x200B;

Source- Have elderly father who lives with me. He gets 1k a month government assistance and free healthcare. I could steal his money as it drops into a shared account, but that would be insanely evil.

&#x200B;

Edit- 

I also have a grandmother who had an estate that my drug addicted cousin and aunt slowly siphoned, but my grandma enabled them. She also received government assistance and they're all over that too. They're such scum. My mom and other aunt have been caring for my grandma, while family scum steals everything, but even still, there is medical coverage for her and when she needed rehab, it was covered. The money went directly to the nursing home she was in for a while too, but she asked to leave so she could keep giving scum addicts money since she's an enabler.
Highly doubt you would be on the hook for anything

Your grandmother should qualify for Medicare, which would cover the cost of a nursing home

Good luck.  What a shitty thing for them to do to her.
A partial answer to 1: probably not. There are things called "filial responsibility" laws where the children are responsible for the reasonable care of a parent. But they are very rarely actually enforced. 

Here's an article from what appears to be a real lawyer:  [https://www.mcguffey.net/resources/blog/backdoor-filial-responsibility-in-georgia](https://www.mcguffey.net/resources/blog/backdoor-filial-responsibility-in-georgia)
Ask a lawyer about recovering the money stolen by the family members who have POA.  Beforehand, though, get a copy of the POA to show the lawyer.
So based on the idea here, big maybe, that the step children might be looked to. But not me, as the grand child.  Thanks for the article!
