Before my GP had my thyroxine levels stable I was all over the place! I would be really forgetful  for examplr I put the oven on and 2hrs later realised I hadn't put the chicken in! Hubby had to make decisions for me as I literally couldn't make up my mind about anything. I was only 46 at the time, I seriously thought I was losing my mind.

However if it is mostly her finances that are the problem it could be that she is not forgetting them but actually losing a skill. In this case it could be dementia. 

In addition you mention that she wants to go home but won't because she loves the kids. This makes me wonder if she might be suffering a bit of depression too. In that case the bills will be too overwhelming for her to deal with. 

There are so many underlying reasons for cognitive/memory problems that have to be ruled out before a diagnosis can be made. The NHS have way more resources available now and you should get a diagnosis fairly quickly.
You mention that she is on thyroxine, is this for a thyroid problem? If so it could be her bloods need  checked, speaking from experience a too low/high level of thyroxine can create all sorts of cognitive mishaps/confusion. 

I would definitely recommend getting that checked out first. It could also be a dementia (there are over 100 types) but it would be in the early stages I think as she sounds very capable in her daily living.

You sound like you are doing a brilliant job of keeping it all together. A calendar on the fridge door is a great way for her to see at a glance the day/date and anything important that is upcoming. 

Wishing you all the best.
Thanks! I am trying. She has her thyroid checked quite often by the doctors. They adjust her medication according to the thyroxine levels. I was just wondering if thyroid affects memory in anyway. 

At the moment she stays with us, and I go twice a week to check her flat for mail etc that needs to be dealt with.she keeps saying she wants to go back home and stay but she won’t because the kids need her. 

She likes to help with the children and does get stuff for them (drinks milk etc). It seems to be the financial stuff that is a problem to her. I’ve checked with my uncle (my mum died 10 years ago) and she was quite good with bills etc back the . So he thinks that it might be a recent thing. 

At the moment she gets me to check her diary (I suppose she likes having a PA lol!) for her appointments. It’s basically a tag team between me and my dad of reminding her of appointments and getting taxis for her to get to appointments.

Ok! Looks like I’m a pa service for the next few years then!
