I love that you’re thinking of making things to help people with dementia, that’s awesome! I hate to be a Debby Downer, but I definitely wouldn’t have bought this for either my grandmother (Alzheimer’s) or my MIL (Lewy Body). Biggest issue I see with something like this, is that they’d have to learn how to use it before they “forget” how to learn, which is usually before they’re diagnosed. I would think few healthy people would buy something like this, just in case they get dementia, and people who are already diagnosed probably wouldn’t be able to learn to use it.
I put a kill switch on my mom’s. It’s just a regular stove. But when she is left alone, it magically won’t turn on. It’s amazing! 🤷🏼‍♀️
I see you having two groups to satisfy for a product like this. The user is unlikely to be the purchaser, but will need the product designed for their ease of use.  The purchaser is likely to be assisted living complexes and caregivers/children so you will also need to satisfy their concerns. I would suggest going with physical switches rather than buttons when possible. Perhaps a micro/toaster oven combo unit? I doubt most caregivers/complexes want to retain full baking abilities but I could be wrong. Size is a concern for assisted living but caregivers with loved ones staying at home would probably want a traditional oven size to fill the gap in full sized kitchens. Consider which of these is most important as a costumer and balance that with the need of the daily user. Perhaps you can make a single unit and offer a matching cabinet or trashcan or mini fridge to fill the left over space so that you don’t lose part of the available market but don’t have to design and produce multiple units.  As much as I hate the trend of internet connectivity in kitchen appliances, I suggest in this case a simple “I need help” button that would call a preprogrammed loved one via app or internet phone call.  A simple app interface could be designed for the loved one to take control. Make sure to include a lock out on the door so caregivers and complexes can disable stove/range independently based on need.
By the time someone has dementia to a point where they cannot attend to a normal stove with dials, they really shouldn't be using any stove unsupervised.  That's when you as the family go turn off the electricity to that appliance on the breaker box, you know?

Sadly, I don't think I'd buy it.  There's such a narrow range of time for simplified gadgets in my experience.  A couple of my elders went for instance from being able to dial 10-digit numbers, to needing pre-programmed numbers, to forgetting how to use a phone entirely.  That middle period with the pre-programmed numbers was so short.  And in a lot of ways the stove reminds me of that.
If it could be arranged, induction elements for the burners - those could be safer and require less time-related attention.
I am hoping to make it self-explanatory enough so that the person with dementia (at least early to middle) can look at the buttons, press something that looks vaguely right, and have it work, then shut itself off.  Big labels, color and shape coding, arrows from control to burner.

You may be right, though.  Trying to teach my mom to use a microwave has been a nightmare, especially since she also has vision issues.

My intended market is caregivers of people either living alone or in in-law quarters who still retain some independence but need help.

Thanks for your opinion.
Did you find one ready-made, or did you have to jury-rig it?  I haven't been able to find anything that will work, especially for a rental apartment.
Thanks.  I'm basing the baking option on my own mother, now 84, who has never voluntarily used a microwave and continued to heat frozen dinners in the oven until we finally had to disconnect it, because she'd put something in, turn it on Broil and leave it either over night or until someone came over to her home and turned it off.  She almost caught her apartment on fire several times.

She has also never been able to figure out the toaster Oven, at least not a new one, with tiny lettering, and they tend to have a timer override so they can cook indefinitely.  Since they're generally poorly insulated and she leaves paper nearby, that's an even worse fire-hazar, although I thought about it.  There's a lot of inexpensive competition in toasters and micros too.

I love your "I need help" button.  I was planning to connect it all to Alexa and equivalents, but I want to get a stupid unit out before I get too involved with the smart ones.  It's definitely in the works, though.  And a lock out is a great idea.
Thanks.
Thanks.  I'd do a glass top induction.
Hired a clever repair guy to do it. Totally worth it.
