My mother has her mind but we recently put her in a nursing home since she is 85 and too frail to take care of herself. I have two brothers with no wife or kids, 2 married kids of our own with 5 children. Something like that would be great. My brothers still work odd hours. She Thinks she is only in there to rehab her broken ankle but she has to be there permanently .
And I have dementia myself although for now I function ok. (Except for tending to ramble).
I don't know of any apps but I will be watching this thread to see if anyone can recommend one.

Do you visit at the care home? I've read where people had luck with using a big white board and writing important things on it to help the person with dementia. Like the day of the week, and other little reminders. You could take a pic of the board and send it to your sibs so they know what's on the "daily schedule".
Given that we eventually all experience age-related changes, learning to use a schedule management tool before the dementia/eyesight/coordination makes it hard to learn new things seems like a good idea. 

The power of love and presence and listening and touch won't be delivered by an app.  Among my friends it seems that our remote and childless sibs don't embrace the messiness and human frailty the same way as those who are in close, regular physical contact with elder parents or young children. 

It will help those who are not here, keeping them in touch (or by giving them access when/if they choose) with the sometimes tedious, yet also funny, surprising, improvisational daily effort. 

Good luck to you, your mother and family, and may everyone connect in a meaningful way. <3
Thanks for the tips. We have had only moderate success with white boards. The info gets wiped away as she carries it around, or else she puts it in the closet.  I don't think she likes the look of the white board.  

While I do visit frequently (3-5 days a week), it's not every day. We and her friends take her out for church, social visits, lunches, dinners, and shopping on a regular basis. Sticking to a weekly schedule for these things helps a bit, for her and for us.  

Right now we review the day's agenda each AM, jot notes on our respective calendars, and try to keep it fun. 

She could benefit from a clock that spells out the time, time of day, weekday, and date.  I hope it syncs with her phone's time!  She gets hung up on the 2-3 minute difference between the atomic alarm clock and her phone clock.

I will create a shared google calendar with  my sibs for her appointments, and there may be a way to add daily notes field (or a standing 0-duration appointment) we can use for capturing items of significance. Will report back how it works out.
Okay I just thought of something but first I have to ask a stupid question- does the care home have wifi? Honestly, for what they charge, imo they should, and I hope your mom's does have wifi.

My mom got an Alexa. I never had one so at first I was skeptical, but her speech therapist had one, so she taught my mom how to use some things, and it has really been a success.

Here is an article on how Alexa is helping seniors with dementia:

https://www.caringseniorservice.com/blog/how-alexa-can-improve-your-loved-one-with-dementias-life

And here is an article on how multiple people can talk to the same device through the app. Perhaps this is something you and your siblings could set up for your mom?

https://www.pcmag.com/feature/363112/how-to-let-multiple-people-use-the-same-amazon-echo/7
Yes, there's WiFi.  Alexa might be worth a shot, to see if it helps her. Could help her to practice clear speech. 

Glad it was a success for your mom, and thanks for the info.
