We sent our mom to memory care after she fell down and its been so good for all of us including her. Best of luck i know its hard
We put my mom in memory care when caring for her at home became too much for her care taker (my brother) and was impacting his mental health and her safety was becoming an issue even with in home care.
You probably need to weigh how much longer you can keep your Loved One at home using the Night aide. At some point, you will probably still need Memory Care, so if your Loved One is still cognizant at all, it may be better to send her now, so she can meet people and get settled in.
We had Mom evaluated by the memory care people and the doctor. Neither even ran through all the test.
I appreciate the dilema. If you commit to visiting her daily, advocating for her good care, memory care can be a relief for LO and yourself. It can make you a better caregiver, one that's supported and not burning out and you can return to being more of a emotional support than a physical support. 
Is LO nonverbal? If not, I would try to ask her what she wants, and see what her reaction is. Same with trying a new place, see if she joins right in or if she freaks out in the different environment. You could see if the facility does adult day programs and get her accustomed through attending those, or just use it to gage her reaction to the environment.
Of course some places are better than others. If it's not the exact time to move her, it is the time to start exploring what is offered near you, if you haven't already. 
Lastly, going through a home healthcare agency is pricey. I'd recommend finding and interviewing caregivers privately if you do go that route.
Would Love your thoughts.  We have similar issue.  Parent is very frightened and timid.  Does not do well in new or group situations.  Family have done nothing to help them with this over the last couple yrs.  

We try to get parent to day time activities at senior centers etc, but other family are very resistant.  They're unwilling to deal with the hassles of finding in home care and think that warehousing their parent is a glorious one stop shop.  

We think it's an environment parent will not thrive in because of their natural timid tendency, their love for home and family, and lack of encouragement by family members to explore senior activities and group situations.  

Family members are bound and determined to check parent into the closest local facility, even if it's not the best fit for their parent.  It fits the family.
I love you both
