My Mom was diagnosed last year. She's 67. My dad is her primary care giver, they live over a thousand miles away, but even before the diagnosis I talked with mum on a daily basis. Sometimes 10 minutes, sometimes 2 hours. Now instead of 2 hours chatting like friends I spend 2 hours listening to her barely able to find words, ranting about all the delusions and hallucinations she's having, begging me to come save her (because she's convinced Dad is trying to kill her and this is all a conspiracy). It's hard to explain to anyone. The loss and feeling of grief while you're still actively speaking to the person you're grieving for. The joy on the rare moments some part of "them" shines through the madness.

I can't get any information on how long the Neurologist thinks she'll live. She doesn't' eat well and is down to 106 lbs. I am going home for a LONG visit in August and I am hoping to find out more than last trip. I am 41 and have pretty much established my life where I am, but I am still contemplating moving 'home.'

They think she has Lewy Body Dementia. There were small signs only obvious via hindsight for at least the last 5 years (or more according to my brother). Then March 2018 she just went completely insane overnight. We think she may have had a mini stroke that aggravated the condition we didn't even yet know about. But she went to bed herself and woke up the next morning convinced they'd never paid their mortgage on their house, and people were coming to take the house and kill her dog and put her in jail. Those delusions have only grown, morphed and changed in to even more hideous delusions and hallucinations since. She sees creatures in the tree-tops and says they want to boil her alive and chop her up. She's constantly terrified and none of the various medications have helped so far.

I understand the having a hard time grasping. It's been a full year of this downward spiral and it still feels completely surreal to me. I turn it off, then it hits me and I sob, then I turn my emotions off again to get through the day and her calls (Dad says talking to me is one of the few things that seems to calm her down, so I try to call for as long as I can).

I am so sorry any of us are going through this. I could never have explained to myself what this feels like, and I have a really hard time trying to explain it to my friends/family here.
My partner's mother is only 62. We're both 30 and she's been living with us for the past year. It can be really difficult some days and has taken a huge effect on our lives. Don't feel guilty about putting her in long term care. We started this path thinking the same way, and are quickly realizing that we're getting to the end our ropes too.
