Your county should have an Elder Abuse phone number to contact for cases like this. Give them a call, give them the info and details as you know them, and see how this works out.
I was planning on going by the department of aging & getting paperwork for any type of aid offered(we have no way of knowing what she qualifies for ) & giving it to the POA on Sunday as a finale chance to make certain they know it's not some sort of scam ,the thing that set alarms off for me was after I asked for the insurance /income info the second time POA said she had her daughter look into & nothing is available ( POA's daughter See's Gran once a year in a good year) & there was no need for me to check
Any idea what kind of legal response we are talking about ? We dont  want to be POA or anything just want her to have best care possible
In Canada we have The Office of The Public Guardian and Trustee. It's a branch of government that steps in and manages someone's finances. It's a last resort measure when an adult has been deemed incapable of managing their own finances. They also investigate cases of POA abuse and can even bring about charges if needed. A lot of countries have something similar. They would be ideal to help in a situation like this.
While I recommend reporting abuse make sure to document and take pictures. We have been dealing with APS for near 2 years for my MIL and they deemed it unsubstantiated (the caregiver would leave her for hours in a wet attend and not feed her all day, no bathing and would answer video calls while she was butt naked, when she finally did bathe her) I had to send in a book length email straight to the supervisor to reopen the case. Now 8 months later after that we haven’t heard anything and the caregiver is graduating nursing school and doing what she likes. Nothing happened to her, she is still caring for people. So in turn make sure you have more evidence than you need because they won’t do much when you report.
Second this approach. Call in help. Your gran is being abused.
Thank u
As I would recommend this, I have personal experience with reporting elder abuse. Unless there is physical bruises they won’t do anything and call it unsubstantiated. So in turn you should report it but don’t expect anything to happen. It’s been near 2 years for us and we had to fight to reopen the case last year against the old caregiver who neglected and abused my MIL.
Talk to them about the abuse before you start filling out forms. I don't know what to expect, so I'm sorry I can't be of help on that front.
If there is financial abuse there would probably need to be someone else made responsible. And, at this point, grandmother may not be able to make that decision so a guardian may be needed instead.  Ask about this when talking to the people handling elder abuse - they may not know but could refer you to the ones who would know.
I agree with the others.  Call whatever passes for Adult Protective Services in your area.   Caregivers see this all the time.

We dont want to be POA or anything just want her to have best care possible.

The "best care" possible is often whatever is available and who is paying for it.
Please consider contacting the program from which she is graduating. Professional academic programs have a vested interest in the "product" (the credentialled graduate) they produce, including the ethics that person lives up to (or doesn't). They may not be able to do anything immediately/directly, but may be able to red-flag her for possible future attention.
Abuse—agree. This stinks to high heaven. Somebody is pocketing money, I'd bet on it. The smokescreen sounds pretty thick, and where there's smoke, there's generally fire.
I have to hope that the county OP is in has a more... robust elder abuse investigation team.
Thank you
That’s a good idea. I will have to do some snooping.
Here’s to hoping! Oregon doesn’t give 2 shits about their elderly.
