Cna with a lot of experience in memory care here. 

Don’t remind her of things that upset or hurt her if you can help it. It just causes her to feel the same emotions over and over, even if her reaction might be a bit different each time. Things are already set in motion in her head :/ There is no getting better from here on out. We can’t bring them back to our world once their memory goes. We can only go into theirs. 

As long as she isn’t doing anything dangerous, let her think she is healthy or that the memory issues are from the fall. It won’t hurt anything. Attitude, outlook and environment make a HUGE difference in people with dementia, especially in earlier stages. 

Wish you guys all the best
Both my parents, who live with me and my husband in an ensuite, are 83 and have early stage dementia.  Since it was early stage, I did tell them.

I have noticed neither can handle sad news.  My mum seems to savour distressing news and ruminate and internalize it.  I have asked all family members to maintain cheerful light conversations, which has had a significant improvement on her health.  My dad flips from being Mr. Cocky to Mr. Meek.  Each day is a surprise.

Both my parents have daily personal support workers for bathing, exercises and light housekeeping.  It isnt many hours but it makes my life easier.  We have cleaners come in bi- weekly

If you avoid it, don't tell them and be effective in changing the topic.  Perhaps your mum is easily distracted.

Get your mum's finances and paperwork in order. Put away anything valuable.  Make copies of all her identification.

And connect the local seniors and dementia groups.   You are not alone (something I remind myself daily).
Given how long concussion recovery takes (it took me almost a year to get fully back to normal), I don’t see the harm in just letting her think that that’s the issue. I see no reason to upset her if you don’t need to.
I think that in the earlier stages of dementia someone can understand but what a blow to hear - how frightening. In mid to later stages, it's rejected because their reality is their reality even though it's not based in the world's reality (if that makes sense?). My mom rejects it but knows she has some short term memory loss so we leave it at that. 

Sadly there's nothing to do with the diagnosis anyway. It's a brain disease that isn't curable.  There are a a few medications to try to relieve symptoms that work for awhile but the prognosis isn't good. It's all about dealing with behaviors and keeping them safe so you can likely just use the head injury as a culprit, for as long as she remembers falling.
Lack of insight is perhaps one of the more frustrating parts of dementia, at least in my experience with my mom. She is aware that her brain isn’t functioning as it should, but she’s always surprised when “Dementia” comes up. “Why would they put that in my paperwork, do you suppose?” She’s not terribly far along, but it’s like her brain is protecting her from having to face it. Right now, I can’t see the benefit of having The Talk with her. What would it help? She is fine with taking her meds for it, and as she can’t really do anything about it, I figure there’s no need to confront her with it.
My mother is being diagnosed for this within the next few weeks.  I know she has it.  Her memory has deteriorated very rapidly over the past couple of years (she's currently 85 years old).  It's so sad because she has a hard time holding a conversation.  Definitely upsetting my (87 year old) father.  

After reading your question, I realized we are going to have to struggle with the same issue very shortly.  I'll ask my mom's neurologist what he thinks is the best way to do this.

Have you spoken to your mother's neurologist?
If you think she can retain the idea that she has this diagnosis, without upsetting her, I think you should - it’s important to imprint knowledge on her while you can, because it just gets harder to adapt to change. 

Similarly, I’d recommend starting routines (daily, weekly) and stick to them, so that they become habit and not surprises.
FWIW I would describe the symptoms and not label the condition. Some people find a diagnosis terrifying, some find it helpful. Sounds lie she is in denial? So let her carry on. Se probably knows deep down and if she wanted to know she would be asking.
Our father was never formally diagnosed with dementia. He somehow "passed" the basic cognitive exams the docs gave him. However, it was clear he had dementia as he talked in a loop constantly and couldn't handle bills, grooming, cooking, etc. We chose to never pursue a formal diagnosis or utter the word dementia around him. He told us it was simply age related short term memory loss. And we just went along with it. We did this because our Dad repeatedly expressed in his 60s that his greatest fear was getting dementia like others he knew. That was a key piece of the puzzle for us. So, not discussing dementia worked for our family. He never felt down on himself as his memory deteriorated.  Wish you the best with your decision.
Great advise and input, thanks!  My father wants to hire CNA or HHA to be with my mom overnight.  Do you have any suggestions on how to go about choosing and hiring someone?
A CNA to stay in your house over night? Or just to help her get ready for bed in the evenings? Or what? Is she having trouble doing tasks herself like getting dressed or showering,  or are you guys just concerned about her safety after the diagnosis? 

I would advise you to call some local home health companies and have a nurse come out to assess her. They will let you know what she qualifies for (round the clock care, nighttime care, just medication checks, etc). If you can’t afford home health or don’t want to go that route, post on websites like Facebook marketplace and Indeed for a private hire CNA.
I would suggest from personal experience that you may want to first think about what exactly your dad wants an aid to do as the previous person asked.  There are many companies out there that provide home care but you need to be very diligent about researching them.  Some of the companies are wonderful  but some are not.  Some handle only non-medial issues and others do only medical. One thing to be aware of is that when you use a company they are insured and bonded and do background checks on their caregivers.  If you put ad ad out or find an independent caregiver you do not have any of those things and if something goes wrong you have no backup help or way to get support. You are also responsible for tax issues when paying someone on your own which can cause issues for you later.  I know many of us pay people cash but if the employee has an issue with how they claim their money it can come back to you.

&#x200B;

One of the best bits of advice I can give you about caring for someone with dementia is to avoid as much disagreement as you can. Do not try and explain what is right to them all the time. Often it is better to just go with what they are thinking and saying. You provide more calm for them when you resist the urge to explain or rationalize. For example if someone has died and they keep asking you about that person all the time and forgetting they have died it is more calming for them if you just answer the questions and go along with it.

Such a hard thing for families.
