Honestly? I think you're absolutely right to doubt this. It's unnecessary stress to your mom and you hit it on the head. What will it do? Is she in a research study? If not, I would not consent.

If your mom is on hospice care, maybe call them. They could probably give you a decent second opinion. This is part of the disease.

Go with your gut and don't look back. I am sorry they're making you deal with this though. It's hard enough just to deal with the disease, but having to make decisions like this is not making it any easier.
I am siding with cynics, thinking there is no reason to do this, other than to cover their backside. Did the nursing home really just "ask if you would consent" to an MRI? Then that means you could say, "No." 

Maybe post this in /r/Doctor? Maybe someone with no skin in the game could chime in with an reasonable answer?
Hmmm, this sounds odd, doesn’t it? A way to bill a lot of money to her insurance, cause all of those tests are going to very expensive? Can she swallow food?  If not, the answer is usually a swallow test - not MRIs. So the only outcome may be that they find a source of pain. Does she seem to be in pain now? You can probably get the doctor to add a low dose pain medicine without the tests, just based on her diagnosis.  I think it would be very traumatic with very few actionable results. It’s not like they would start physical therapy.  My answer would be very emphatic and very loud. It would also be made to the Doctor that wants the tests.  Does he, by chance, own a part of the MRI Center? Stay Strong.
Would the MRIs show pain? Ask for a good explanation from the physician directly, not through the NH staff.   I am authorizing medical procedures for my father to help prevent pain.
Thank you all for your responses. I spoke with a nurse last night. The doctor was not available. It was a good conversation. She said they are worried about pain and they think the tests will help find a solution to make her more comfortable. So, I opted for the testing.
