My mother was recently diagnosed at 65, so I still have a lot of learning and research to do. But yes, I am concerned about there being a genetic link. I’m trying to exercise more and eat better and do more crosswords, generally do anything I can to give myself the best chance possible.
it's certainly a paranoia for sure but not going to let it ruin the present especially if you can't avoid it.  I do remember my mother when Diagnosed still understood the situation.  It sucks because everything you lived literally is forgotten ... already know there is assisted suicide in Switzerland (which there should be in America) and if it does get worse, go out my way instead of being a burden to friends/family, at that stage I won't know what hit me or already forgotten
im 15 and im very scared of suffering the same as my mom
The fear paralyzes me. It’s something I’m working on because it’s not mentally healthy to feel this way all the time. As other mentioned, I’m glad there are options for if the time comes.
I’m a drinker and smoker but I’m not worried because my parents had a less caring life than me.

They were rich and were socially popular in the 70s/80s scene.

Lots of cocaine and high priced steak dinners.

I think that was the cause since my grandparents didn’t have Alzheimer’s. And they lived to 86 and 92.

Genetic? Sure. Exacerbated? For sure.

I eat a lot of veggies, work out and avoid beef for the most part.
I was able to get my dad diagnosed at 60 but he had it at least 3 years before that with bo treatment with his ex-wife. 

My grandma on that side lived with full blown raging Alzheimer's for over 10 years. 

Pretty much everyone in ny dads side who lives over 50 seems to get it. I have no desire to deal with it. My wife went talk with me about it but I have paperwork in place and wills drawn up. When I reach that age if it seems I'm coming down with it and there is no cure by then i will not be keeping around. It's not worth the pain to my family to watch it draw out on me.
Absolutely. 

If/when I get diagnosed, I will consider my options, because I never want my grandchildren to go through what I did—watching their grandparent die from soul to body helplessly.
I am absolutely terrified of this. My great-grandfather and my grandmother and her two sisters had alzheimer's, definitely genetic. I have seem how badly this disease affected her and how quickly she deteriorated. Sadly she passed in January and since her passing I think about this all the time. I saw her throughout all her phases and during the end it was so painful to see her, how she was before and seeing her as she was at the moment. I've always told my wife that if I am ever diagnosed that I just want to be put in a home when I'm "gone" because I don't want her to suffer through taking care of me. It's a very real fear.
According to the Alzheimer’s Association... “A family history of Alzheimer’s is not necessary for an individual to develop the disease. However, research shows that those who have a parent or sibling with Alzheimer's are more likely to develop the disease than those who do not have a first-degree relative with Alzheimer’s. Those who have more than one first-degree relative with Alzheimer’s are at an even higher risk. When diseases tend to run in families, either heredity (genetics), environmental factors — or both — may play a role.” Read more about genetics and what we know so far [by clicking this link](https://www.alz.org/alzheimers-dementia/what-is-alzheimers/causes-and-risk-factors/genetics). I hope this helps some.
I have been thinking of going to a nearby university where they have some research on dementia going on to see if they would take me as a subject - they would do some tests and on-going monitoring... part of me is terrified, the other part can't find the time to start the process (phone calls, appointments) because I spend so much time away from work while taking my father to dr appts himself.
I low-key worry about this all the time. My mom was diagnosed at 58 and started showing symptoms for a few years before that. 

My worries vary. Sometimes I worry about not being able to take care of myself and having to rely on someone else. Sometimes I worry that I won’t be able to afford home health care or assisted living. Sometimes I worry that I’m not “living my best life” and should while I can, because I might not get to wait until I retire to check off my bucket list items. Sometimes I worry I’m forgetting things already. Sometimes I see articles that that correlate diet, living in a city, or drinking to Alzheimer’s and start worrying about that. My level of worry ranges.

As far as I know, my mom’s the only one in the family with any kind of dementia. My grandma is in her 90s and pretty sharp still.
Yeah, get tested for the APOE genes.  It's not definitive but it'll be a clue.  I've planned to kill myself on my third-to-last-good day. I'll not go in drips and drabs.
I'm getting my information from Dementia Australia for this: [Familial Alzheimer's disease is quite rare](https://www.dementia.org.au/information/genetics-of-dementia).

I too went through an existential crisis after learning more about the disease (my mother had early-onset). At the same time, I know my mother had ticked a few risk factors for the disease.

You have two choices if you're in the same situation. The more productive option is to live the best life you can and minimise all those risk factors - do regular exercise involving weights/resistance, eat well, find ways to socialise, keep challenging your brain and never stop learning things, etc.
Apparently on 23 and Me genetic testing you can find out if you have the gene, this scares me because I don’t know what I would do if I found out I had it.. 


I just basically asked my doctor & naturopathic doctor everything I can do to stave it off. 
They have been pushing me to do lots of cardio and take care of my gut microbiome saying that the most powerful Alzheimer’s prevention starts with a healthy gut biome. Also I have been making sure I have been doing cardio 4 days a week.

My doctor absolutely berated my dad for taking sleeping pills still basically telling him that he is completely fucking his brain up and will massively increase his chance of developing Alzheimer’s or vascular dementia as well. 


Scary shit.. the thought of getting it terrifies me.
[deleted]
65 is not that early. My father was 55, but there were symptoms earlier otherwise we would have never even thought of Alzheimer’s. And I started doing the same, I quit smoking, but he was never a smoker, I started working out more, as my job does not require physical activity, but his did. He was always healthy, when it comes to his body, never overweight, even after so many years of medication and now being bound to the bed one can see that he has a strong physique. 

I don’t know, it does scare me. And sorry for your mum, I hope you still have a lot time together. I think they do remember even in the later stages, it is just rare.
[deleted]
There is a great,  but very sad documentary about assisted suicide in Switzerland. It is from the view of one who suffers from Alzheimer’s in an early stage, so he goes there to see how this looks like. He meets a man there who allows to be filmed while committing suicide. I’m not sure what exactly this man suffered from, but it was not Alzheimer’s. And trust me, this haunted me for quite a while. And the guy who went there, was as shocked as I, and I think he did not do it. Because, you know, Alzheimer’s is tricky, as you must be willing and able to drink the poison, and I think he passed this stage without knowing. 

You should try and look it up, but be warned, not easy to watch.
Let’s hope your generation never has to deal with it because we find a cure!
I feel you man, my mom was diagnosed when I was 15
Oh, at you age, you should first focus on making a ton of memories. Ah, being 15 again... :-)
Your parents sound like a lot of fun
Please don’t push any genetics/dna site.

They are all so poor.

23andMe just updated their procedure and sent out “Oops” notices.

These are bottom of the barrel services.

They are using the oldest science and making a lot of assumptions based on the “crowd”, they even admit it.

Most importantly, they make it VERY CLEAR that they are “for Entertainment only” and are not to be used as a medical diagnosis.

Go see an actual physician.
I heard it was, I know I actually have a vacation/trip planned with my cousin's girlfriend to meet up with her relatives, not necessarily the topic I want to go on vacation with but if I do learn something and I run across this post again, I'll let you know
I saw  a few clips and the guy is courageous even in that condition ... so far my mom and my uncle to my knowledge has Alzheimers, even in their early stages it was a tough transition and they wanted to die, it's more a guilt thing now for me being "selfish" in continuing her to live the way she is knowing how proud she always was.  I just know if I go down that path ... there are options
I actually love that documentary.

I hated it before I was dealing with an end of life parent.

Now I see it as an option if I end up with a diagnosis.
