I feel for you. I get the changing as a person thing too. If it's any consolation, the change isn't permanent. My watch is over, it took a little while, but I have my life back and I am a better person after caring for my mother. It can be so bleak though when you're in the middle of it. My salvation was taking 45 min a day to just run. It really saved me. 

Stay strong, stay sane. You're not alone, come here anytime to blow off steam. I wish I had some great wisdom to impart, but it's hard, we all know it's hard. You're still you. You're standing up and doing the right thing. You're a good person.
My father use to say "10% of the world lives a great life.  The universe dumped a great big turd on the rest of us".

Caregiving is the hardest job.
OP, yes those of us who have done this for while get it. It's hard. Your life changes but I think this...my friends know what I'm doing. Most are very supportive and are either in a similar situation or at least can relate to my situation. The two that couldn't or wouldn't...I don't really talk to them anymore. And that's ok.
You need people who can relate. That's why this sub is so good.
Focus on a hobby you enjoy to stay positive and maybe research support groups in your area. ❤️♥️
I’m sorry. I’ve been doing this just six months, but I feel what you’re saying. People always say they admire it, that it’s rewarding, and that now it’s “my turn”. I just feel like it brings out the worst in me—feelings internally, and how I act around others now, too. 

I don’t want you to feel alone, but no one can ever truly understand another’s situation. I’m glad you’re venting here, anyway.
I'm going to remember your dad's saying and use it. Hope that's ok. ❤️♥️
Cooking and gardening were OPs hobbies. OP cant enjoy them or have the energy for them anymore.

I've in this same situation my self and the only reason why OP and me havent walked away from our parents despite the lack of social support is that we will be labeled a pile of shit by everyone.
That's fine.  ;  )

I always recommend finding a care giver support group in your area.  It does help to know that you aren't the only one.
