Talk to the home and the family to find out what time of day is best for their person, and call ahead to make sure you're coming on a good day. Ask if you can get them anything, coffee, tea, water. Make sure they're comfortable and that there are few to no distractions in the area. Ask what they would like to tell you about themselves. Ask about their favorite stories. Ask about their mothers and fathers, sisters and brothers, cousins, neighbors, what they did for fun, favorite vacations. House they grew up in. Ask if there is anything they would change or do differently. Ask about their faith, if they are a person of faith. Ask what made them who they are. Ask about their favorite teacher and their favorite aunt. Ask about their profession and where they went to school. Ask their favorite recipe if they cooked, was it a family recipe? What hobbies did/do they have? Favorite book? What was the first movie they ever saw? Favorite fishing hole or swimming hole? Best advice for young married couples and young mothers and fathers, young people just starting out in the profession they used to do. Best day of their life. Hardest day of their life. What they are most proud of. Try not to say "Do you remember," instead "Can you tell me about..." Always ask for more unless they seem upset or hesitant. Take breaks and come back if you can, you're trying to capture a whole life. You can't do that in 20 or 30 minutes or maybe even a day, unless that's all a person can remember of their life. Ask them to show you any pictures they have. Ask about jewelry they're wearing. Ask about personal items in their room, if they're willing to show you. Ask about family traditions.
Thank you so much for taking the time to respond to me. I love the "Can you tell me about..." suggestion. I'll probably read through this several times.
Yw. I think what you're doing is an amazing service, it's something I'd love to do when I have less on my plate.
Thank you. It means a lot to me to be able to do what I do.
