 ... yeah, you entered the scary zone and you might want to seriously think of moving either him or your mom out soon.  Sad thing is he won't even know he did it or totally forget.   Unless your mom has a safe place to go to in the house, my aunt had her garden and shed that she went to and waited it out, you might want to go to your local Alzheimer's group and ask for suggestions ... good luck, I know it's hard seeing your dad like this but got to protect your mom
My dad would occasionally be violent towards my mom. I even got a call one day when he grabbed her neck and I rushed home from work. He would get triggered by her getting frustrated with him not responding to her. She could legit not raise her voice. Talk to her about what led to it. It could be nothing but can't hurt to talk out the situations. 

I've heard CBD oil can help. My dad's anger period didn't last long and now he doesn't care about anything. I do recall someone saying CBD helped their spouse. If not, talk to your dad's physician.

For us, or my mom, putting dad in a nursing home isn't an option. But, overall we've been lucky.
If your Mom sees that your Dad is getting worked up, she should leave the room immediately - better safe than sorry. She should go to a room with a door that he can’t open. Ideally, she would have a cell phone with her so she could call someone to come help her, if need be. 

A relative, with Alzheimer’s, stabbed her husband several times with a steak knife because she didn’t like the answer he gave to a question she asked. That was her first violent outbreak. That was also her last day at home. He was brought to ER for stitches and she for sedation. The ER doctor would not let her return home. Period.  

She used to be the sweetest woman ever, so you just can’t trust that your Dad will be the same person he’s been all these years. Imagine the stress on your Mom now, worried that he’s going to harm her. Perhaps it would be better for both of them if he was in a Memory Care Unit. Then, she could visit and still be his wife, instead of his caretaker.   Worth some thought.  Stay strong. Hugs to all of you.
My Grandfather started to imagine a man breaking into the house and having an affair with my grandmother. One night our neighbor down the street saw my grandmother running down the block and chased after her to make sure she was okay. She told him to call the cops because my grandfather was crazy talking.   


My folks and I drove over and my grandfather had this trance look over his face and he had no idea why he was outside. My grandmother was laying in the grass ( I don't blame her, because at her age, she probably hadn't had to move like that in a while)... Long story short, we took away all of the knives, scissors,box cutters, screw drivers... anything that looked like a legitimate weapon that could be used. Also I moved in with them. At night was when most of the episodes would happen. He was so certain someone was climbing through the window.   


I'm a big guy and I can handle myself... But only when I am awake. It was a little scary to imagine his wires getting crossed and thinking i am the intruder. My grandparents would do anything for me, that's why I never felt it as a burden to return the favor when they needed help.
Might want to ask doctor about medication to keep him calm. CBD worked wonders with my Mom when she would get agitated. I'm sorry its come to this stage - its so hard. Tell your Mom that when he starts getting worked up to just stop there. Don't press the issue any further and to keep her distance (safely if she can). When he has forgotten, which he will, she can continue and maybe try a different tactic. 

For my mom, bathroom time was the most difficult as she thought someone was trying to undress her, although obvi we were just getting her to use the toilet. We had to "literally" tell her every moment what was going to happen and then what was happening and praise her the whole time. Hard but made it manageable.
One suggestion would be to remember he is starting to live more and more in his own reality (realities). The agitation increases when that reality is challenged. If she is able to maintain his safety while accepting his reality, distracting and redirecting when possible, but just going along with him when not that will somewhat minimize his agitation.

Another option is medication. The problem there is almost all medications for decreasing agitation in patients with dementia/Alzheimer's work well in the short term but their tolerance levels increase and so after some months they'll need an increase in dosage.
The main recommendation is for her to talk to his doctor/specialist in providing demtia related care about her concerns.
my mom got increasingly more violent. she's in a safe living unit and we had to take away her table utensils because she'd thrown them at other residents or try to stab people.  We also had to take away china plates and cups etc because she'd throw them.  so paper and plastic to eat with and of course 'mashed' food so she can eat it with plastic.   
 We had to take her shoes away because she'd take one off and throw it at someone (for no reason)

&#x200B;

by the way, mom has been bed ridden for more than six months (in palliative care). she can't feed herself anymore so staff do it for her and she can no longer swallow liquids unless they're thickened a bit.  even then she needs help sometime. 

&#x200B;

the only thing i can recommend is to keep everyone safe.  whatever that takes.  Alzheimers stole my mother some years ago. now it is just her body surviving but not thriving...simply lying in bed, unable to talk, see, or hear. but alive.
We just had an outburst from my mother in law. She got off bed at 7am I was in the bathroom she could not open the door, then she tried the one that goes to the living room, but could not open it, she scream to be let out. I come out open the door, she goes into living room, but was getting agitated.

Did not see the signs: was asking about a rug we have she could not make out the details,then started on the where are my things? This is where I screwed up I took her to see her things in her room and that's where she lost her: crying, saying that was not his father picture (I guess she remembers only young him), then told her about her daughters, she said she had none.

Then telling the walker was broken, then the "I want to go home". Lucky me the nurse that keeps her company was already here, since my wife was in the shower.

So after some convincing she has calmed  down some, but not fully.

I kind of distracted her by mentioning the dogs (was tempted te bring one into the house). Already have 50's music playing and our aquarium with the fish (that helps).

My stress level just went through the roof. I writing here just to try to relieve some of it. This is the worst episode in a month. But I'm sure it won't bu the last.

Actually I think it started yesterday evening when I was explaining she needs to use the walker to avoid ending in a wheelchair (bad knee + screw from a past broken leg giving issues)

In short, recognize the trigger points and get a bag full of patience.
My dad's doctor prescribed quetiapine (Seroquel) for him when his behavior started to become aggressive and violent. That has helped, for the three years that he's been taking it. However, he still tries to hit and/or punch me and the caregivers when we want to change his Depends and clean him up.

I haven't tried CBD, but it's legal here in California, so I might.
Thanks for your reply. I’m trying to help her be prepared. I don’t live near, but visited over the weekend. He’s displaying OCD behaviors that are new. And he gets confused.
Yikes! It is really scary. And of course the patients don't mean it at all. My dad will quickly forget he was angry, but after spending a few days with them, I could see that there's a lot of anxiety for both of them right now.
Someone told to get some (not yet entirely legal in my country)
Yes, they're both under a lot of stress. Dad is mostly okay -- and often you can just talk to him and it's like there's nothing wrong. But he gets agitated, especially later in the day, or if he gets confused. He's such a sweet guy -- they are both really struggling right now.
Whoof, that's scary. And yes, at a certain point, the patient becomes unaware of reality. My dad is still mostly okay, but I can see that he's headed into deep waters. Hopefully my mom can weather it with our help.
Thanks -- I have given her advice gathered here from this conversation with everyone. They luckily have an appointment this week, so I am hoping that they can offer him some medication to help alleviate some of the anxiety that he's experiencing right now.
Yes, that totally makes sense. He is totally doing his best, but he's got a lot of anxiety and confusion right now. He's teetering on the edge of stage two (late stage one, I think.) So, he's still pretty much the same old dad a lot of the time, but he's got some OCD behaviors that have cropped up in the last month.
Poor thing -- so sorry to hear about your mom. That has to be so hard for everyone. :(
Yes, that's good advice -- my mom has always been anxious, so really once they both start heading in that decision, it's kind of a runaway train. Thanks so much for writing -- hope that your mother in law has a peaceful week.
My mom was prescribed the Seroquel too. Puts her to sleep. 

She was later prescribed CITALOPRAM for her aggression and OMG it has been a miracle drug for her (us). After 2/3 years of scratching, pinching, throwing, hitting, and yelling, she is now mellow and calm.
That's really scary -- glad to hear that your dad has gotten some help with those tough moments.
yeah, priorities should be towards your mom  ... but you might want to seek help finding a home for your dad soon or moving your mom out and getting a helper for him.  It sucks being in that in-between phase but precautions are always good to look at, also make sure the house is safe in terms of appliances and sharp objects
Thanks, by 10am she was calmer, and we could have normal conversation by noon.
She has always being an insecure person. I guess a bad marriage and money problems all her life left her in a bad state mentally long before she got ill.
I've heard of other cases where Seroquel didn't work-- I guess it just depends on individual brain chemistry. It's great that you found a drug that works for your mom, what a relief!

Seroquel has risks, too, and sometimes I feel bad about giving it to Dad. But the alternative would be to put him in a memory care facility, where he'd probably be drugged more to keep him docile. The Seroquel lets me keep him here at home.
My brother and I talked today about helping my mom come up with a plan for the future. She kind of has an idea of some benchmarks as far as what she will not be able to handle, but really, she needs to start looking at facilities, so that she is ready when she needs help.
Poor dear. :( Some people can't really catch a break. Glad to hear you could have a normal discussion. Hang in there!
Update, is 10:30pm I just came back from meeting, she is sitting in bed with a sock in her hand, she says she has a good reason so I just let her be.

Edit: I saw her looking at a clock I installed in her room, says Tuesday, 1030pm the date and that is night time. She just told me she is resting and sleepy and will see me latter.

So clock is doing its job
