Rewind.  You are my hero.  You chose to give up your life and support her and her mother.  Total hero. 

Have an honest conversation about why the trip is important. She's probably scared to be by herself. Maybe you can come up with self care for her too. Remind her of your contributions.  Then go on the trip.
Your girlfriend probably wants a break as well, but knows she can't get because of her mother. You're saying you guys never spend time together, so maybe consider a temporary caregiver so you two can have some time together to do something that's actually relaxing and fun. I don't hold with the other comments saying ditch her because it's getting complicated. If you care about her, then open communication is a must. Set boundaries. Ask her why she's so upset by it so you can work on a solution together, and tell her she can't guilt you every time you need some space. It's not healthy behavior, but she's also in an incredibly stressful situation.  Caregiving is very stressful, and it effects everyone around them.
It's hard to be the person who misses out on the fun trips.  

You are able to go to work and engage with folks outside of the caregiving situation, your girlfriend is not.  That means that she feels the stress and confinement to an even greater degree than you do.

Do you have any respite at all?  Can some be arranged?  Is there any way that you could do a weekly date night? Or a Saturday off once a month?  Can her mother go to an day treatment program?

I'm not sure what you should do about the trip, but I do think that some time away from the caregiving could be important for both of you on an ongoing basis.
Go now. Your life and relationships are important.
I don't agree with the "break up" line of thought, as others have said. A ~10 year relationship is a serious commitment. Couples' counselling? Besides—today, it's her commitment to family—next year, it could well be yours, shoe on other foot. A partner with the loyalty to stick around as caregiver to her mom is someone with a proven track record of integrity, worth at least considering trying to salvage. She sounds depressed right now. Best wishes to you both.
You aren't going to want to hear this.  Get out of that relationship.  Caregiving is horrible and anybody near it, gets pulled into the vortex.
naw she the hero, I am hust here for help but thanks tho!
Well this is where it gets kind of difficult. So her father is still here helping out. Me and her have our own place and I make sure everything is taken care of so she has a place to unwind, destress and kind of get away from caregiving for a little bit. Her dad normally takes over at 6 everyday after work and me and her spend every night together. I try to get her to do other things to improve her situation, like hangout with friends, find a hobby etc, but she wont do it. I am her only source of entertainment and distraction from reality. I dont think its fair of her to be this way but I feel so guilty about even talking about it to her because your absolutley right, I am not the one watching my mom die in front of me. Situation is the worse, I hope for a demetia treatment soon literally the worst thing ever.
You’re getting downvoted, but I agree. 

OP, You really need to evaluate if this relationship has a future. You need to think about what you want and what’s right for you. If you decide to pull away, it will be hard, but that’s okay.
As someone who isolated herself around her boyfriend when my grandfather died, she definatly sounds like she's digging her own rut to get stuck in. She might need a week of self reflection while you enjoy yourself and unwind from the emotional burden she's piled on you and you alone. Reaching out to her friends to help you intervene, and show her how shrink-wrapped she's made herself, and how it's hurting not only her, but the people around her. I still can't jump on the "dump her" train, only because it's not really... advice. If you're just "done" exhausted and don't want to be a part of this anymore, that is a decision for you to make, but it sounds like you still really care, and are just stuck as to how to shake her out of the hole she's put herself in. Maybe talk to her parents about taking her with in a trip, so she can get a bit of breathing room, or talk to her friends about dragging her out while you're gone, so you both can unwind and get some space from each other. You can't be her only source of life, she's not a child and it sounds like she's draining 100% of herself into caregiving, and then expecting you to fill her up again, and that's just not a viable solution
>You’re getting downvoted, but I agree.

Sometimes the truth isn't what people want to hear. Life isn't a Hallmark movie.
