Gosh I know this is going to sound terrible but I would let him smoke. I mean what are you saving him from? It gives you a break and satisfies whatever is troubling him? It may be the one thing he has left that he can do for himself and enjoy
You don’t mention your Dad’s age or how bad his dementia is (what stage).  However, dementia is a progressive disease. So, it will only get worse from here. He will likely forget about cigarettes down the road. Until then, let him smoke. I would make sure someone was with him, so he doesn’t burn himself.  What harm is there in letting him smoke now?
I stood firm. He would say "I want a cigarette, what are you going to do about it?" and I would say "your doctor is so proud of how well your're doing", offering snacks, drinks (without caffeine). As much as possible avoiding the word 'no'.  We tapered for a while - only smoking outdoors during the day and 'losing' all the lighters so that only the tricky one with the child safety catch we use on the grill was around. He could not figure out the child safety catch so would give up and forget what he was trying to do. Note - when you take the lighters you have to remove the knobs on the stovetop also. Also, it just turned out (on purpose) that the only retail establishments we went to at that time were CVS and other stores that DON'T sell tobacco.
I'll start off by saying I was diagnosed 3 years ago but here is a story from the son of a smoker. - 
My father was a 2 pack a day smoker. His dementia advanced quickly so every time he wanted to smoke, my wife or mother would "remind" him he had a $100 bet with a friend of my mother that he did not like. He'd say oh yeah and put the cig back. (He would regularly walk to and from the store to get cigs, beer, or other things he wanted) so he had to stop on his own. 
My mother noticed a knot on his chest and insisted on him going to the Doctor, something he hated to do. A chest X-ray revealed stage 4 inoperable cancer. He got dehydrated from the chemo to the point he had to be admitted. As I said, he was hard headed and went to the restroom on his own. On one trip he fell and hit his head. He died shortly after and in hindsight. It was a blessing. 
Seeing a ~6'5" man go from 225 to 125 is a hard thing to do. I guess God put him out of his misery but I remember the jokes and old sayings he regularly told, especially the dirty Christmas Story he told once a year. They had a party once a year and if you missed it, you missed it for the year. 
I agree, the smokers with dementia forget their urge for it. Let them have the things that made hi happy.
Well, after I saw my father put a smoldering cigarette butt in a wastebasket, I decided he needed to stop smoking.  He could go several weeks without smoking and then would chain smoke once he had a new pack.  Tapered off - for me it was a better alternative than burning down the house.
He is 58 and has fast progressive dementia, within a year of diagnosis  he is now unable to care for himself ( won’t eat unless food is given to him, won’t shower or control water temps unless done for him aka ) we do let him smoke but 1 minute after  his cigarette he is asking for another, he doesn’t stop talking about it. If we do not limit his smoking he will go through a pack in 3-4 hours and will continue asking for more until he falls asleep.
It's hard to get them to only smoke when someone is with them. There are the midnight smokes, for example...
Omg you are totally right I hadn’t even considered that! This is why I’m on here to learn from those who have been here before me. I thank you for the wisdom and also for not reaming me out. So much to know.
Hmmm, ok, so it’s not the nicotine he wants. It seems like his broken brain has gotten stuck on a fixation with cigarettes. His doctor may be able to prescribe a medicine that will break that fixation - possibly one of the antidepressants would help.  Best of luck.
Every situation is different. I was happy to supply cigarettes until I saw that wastebasket...
