I'm getting my dad the apple watch series 4.  It's arriving this tues.  I think pretty much any watch will do what you ask.  You can even set up his phone to do the same thing I think without having to get a watch.

But the apple series 4 is special in that it's the only watch I know of that can can detect falls and send out an alert to you and emergency services.  I posted on the Google sub asking if there was a Google watch that did the same thing but no, it doesnt seem like it based on the responses I got.

The watch needs to be paired with an iPhone that is 5s or above if you get the GPS only version. Or a 6 or above if you get the cellular version.  The good thing about the cell version is that if he forgets to bring his iPhone with him, you'll still be able to see where he is at any time.  With the GPS version, you have to wait till he gets within a WiFi area to see where he's gone IF he forgot to bring his phone.

The bad thing about thr cellular version is you have to pay more money per month for the cell service.

I'm getting my dad the WiFi version since I'm cheap and it's unlikely my dad will forget to bring his phone (its habit for him I think).  Well see if I'm right about that though.
I like your idea. Are there any other smart watches with GPS and the falls feature? My mom doesn’t have an iPhone. I do but I live 2 hours away and not sure that would work... plus my mom no longer knows how to use any devices but does wander.
The falls feature, no - I can't find a single watch other than the apple series 4.  If you find one, could you message me by chance?  I want to get a watch for my mom too but she's an android user.

Your mom doesn't need an iPhone if you get the cellular one and sync the watch to your phone instead.  You can be really far away from her then and it would still work but then you'll have to pay the monthly cell service.  Also, the smart watches can receive calls, calls from your phone if you sync to the watch.  I'm not 100% sure you can turn off the calls.  You'll have to ask someone with a cellular version of the phone (maybe in an apple sub). to find out.
Hey, is it your grandfather or your mom that had dementia?  If it's your grandfather and he doesn't have his own iPhone, if you go with a watch, you will definitely need the cellular option and to get cell service cause I assume the iPhone won't be within range of the watch all the time.

Another option besides a watch is to sign up with a paid alert system.  It's  typically more expensive than getting cell service for a watch.  But some of the devices can also detect falls similar to the iphone.  And if your grandfather has health issues, he can push a button and there will be a person on the other line that talks him through what to do and will send emergency services.  Your watch can call emergency services too but you wont have a special person on the other end talking him through things.
Interesting idea. She couldn’t answer the watch intentionally or run it. She likes to go for walks and generally walks a specific route but she’s declining and who knows what could happen. I will look into it some more.
Sorry I think I confused you by highjacking the post. It was OPs grandfather, but I was commenting about my mom ... thanks for the suggestions!!
