Your situation sounds incredibly close to mine a few years ago. I don’t have specific information, but start with a regional branch of the Alzheimers association.  They would know the local agencies and companies that may be able to help you. The one in my town also offered lists of support groups and respite care and even their own monthly respite care day. Also, if in the US too, call 211 to get in touch with local assistance available.  

It sounds like you guys are doing a great job taking care of your mom, please remember to take care of yourselves. This took a toll on all of our lives and three years after her passing, I am still not recovered. But! The worst of it was on my dad.  He too still worked (part time and the other half was spent on the golf course, so not a couch potato). 7 months before my mom passed, he died of a MI at 72. 

Maybe you could find a retired older lady who would like to sit with your mom for extra income?  That might be my suggestion for an affordable option for care in your situation. 

Best of luck, and I wish you well!
Oof, I wish I had better advice. 

Depending on where you live (States? what state?), I would reach out to your county's agency on aging - it will be called something like that - to find out about respite care and other local resources. They'll afford you an occasional break and be a wealth of info. 

You can find caretakers, often reasonably priced. I went through a string of non-credentialed ones (couldn't afford those): a couple were great, one stole my mom's engagement ring and shortly thereafter OD'd. So vet carefully. 

Eventually, especially if Dad isn't going to do this, you'll need a full time caregiver or a memory unit facility. Start looking now and prepare yourself for how you'll afford it. 

Good luck to you and big hugs.
The best approach I'm aware of is having long term care insurance for the very reason your family faces now. At this point, your parents may not even qualify or it may be prohibitively expensive. 

I'm sorry that I'm not aware of many  good solutions. A private aid often feels "expensive" yet is paid very little for doing what you know is extremely emotionally and physically exhausting work. 

Your state's Agency of Aging or equivalent service  may be able to help provide some resources for respite. Have you looked to see if there are programs your mom may qualify for from the Alzheimer's Association?

Dementia and Alzheimer's doesn't discriminate and society really needs to step in and do more to help protect families from financial ruin due to medical cost. I'm sorry you have to worry about money at a time like this.
Don’t discount any potential aid because of your parents income. For example, in our township my MIL gets 2 days a week of her adult daycare covered just because she medically needs the care and is a permanent resident in the area. Also if you work for a relatively large company they might offer consultation with a senior care advisor as part of your benefits or your Mom’s doctor might have a social worker on staff. They can give you advice about ways to save in your area and the best level of care for your money.
My wife has Alzheimers, one of the best bits of advice I got several years ago was to go to an attorney that specializes in "Elder Care". Different states have different laws so one answer you'll find here may not pertain to you.
For Mom, her husband's retirement, her own retitement, their savings, social security, and two long term care insurance policies.
Thank you everyone for your advice and understanding. I think we can all agree Alzheimer’s sucks!! I only hope that something in the next 10+ years comes out to help or cure or prevent this disease. My mom was such a loving, caring, loud, funny, outgoing person that you could go to for anything. Now I see her as timid, scared, confused, childlike, and just someone living in this very moment in the worst way possible. One tidbit about my mom because I want to share something POSITIVE in this situation/thread, is her sense of humor is still there. She will non stop watch Impractical Jokers, she can’t remember who’s who but she loves them. A show she would have never watched before this. We have all grown to love them (to an extent, you can only take them laughing at each other for so many hours in a row). I can only hope for the best for her and for all of your loved ones. Thank you again everyone!!
We  lady that stays with my mother in law during the day from 7 to 3, at least it lessens the burden on us, but still is hard on us.
Thank you for this!
Thank you, the old man is pretty stubborn. We live in Rhode Island. He kinda schedules things out with a few aunts and my brother and I but I def get the sense we are all at our point running around like crazy and up rooting our lives when he’s gone for a week or more. He’s got that mentality that it works now why worry any further than that. But I think some of us if not all of us are burnt out. And I hate saying that because it’s my mother and she’s fairly easy to take care of for now. But it’s still a lot when you have your life, family, work, social life to balance.
I think that’s the next step to look at the Alzheimer’s associations
Thank you
Thank you for this
If you are very wealthy, there are solutions.  If you are very poor, there are solutions, if you are in the middle, there are no good answers.

See if there are caregiver support groups in your area; real ones not the online ones.  They can be very helpful in telling you what resources are available.

They hide but usually hospitals offer caregiver support and this is for family and friends.
