A GP should be able to make an initial call, and where I’m from (Australia), I suspect a neurologist or geriatrician needs a GP referral letter. At the GP, describe the worst of the symptoms and behaviours. If you downplay it, you may not get the help your dad needs.

If you’re in AU too, give Dementia Australia a call. It’s a great helpline service.
If you are in the UK ask for an appointment with a consultant for a formal diagnosis. 

In Scotland you are then automatically entitled to a full year of support from a dementia adviser who will make sure you are getting support from all outside agencies available.

This is available in England too but it is a different system and to my knowledge not yet a legal/automatic requirement.
Neurologist; treatments vary greatly depending on dementia type, and as it's hard to diagnose. Often determining the type of dementia can be based on the patients reaction to the treatments. You can slow the disease but not cure, but can only slow if the right treatment is being used. For example,  antipsychotic medications used to treat some forms of dementia can make people with Lewy Body dementia worse, some sedatives used for helping a dementia patient to sleep can increase hallucinations and agitation in LB Dementia.

Basically, this is above a GPs pay-grade and you need to find a Neurologist in your area, preferably one that specializes in dementia. Check with your insurance about whether you require a GPs referral etc. Good luck.
Most general practitioners haven't received much training on testing and diagnosing the numerous forms of dementia.  Your best bet is to schedule testing for him with a neurologist or a gerontologist.
In US it would be similar to this. Primary dr can make referral to neurologist or geriatric dr. We went to a geriatric clinic where they had geriatric dr. As well as Occupational therapist and social worker speak/evaluate Mom and also spoke with me independently. 

Feel free to PM me any time if you have more questions. I’ve been on this journey for almost two years.
I'm from US unfortunately.
Hopefully someone will be able to better advise you on dementia services near you. I stand by getting a formal diagnosis though, symptoms and behaviours can vary depending on the type of dementia. Better to know what you are dealing with.
In my experience yes totally agree,you must find out what type of Dementia the person has,behaviour is variable
