Is this a necessary surgery?  Sometimes, doctors recommend treatments and surgeries without regard to the mental condition of the patient.
My mom had an issue with smearing feces from her depends at night, and the assisted living place gave me a suggestion that might work for you. I went out and bought a bunch of adult onesie pajamas, and they just put them on her backwards at night, so the zipper goes up the back and she doesn't have access to anything inside the pajamas. I ended up cutting off the collars and rehemming them because when they were on backwards I thought they were too high on her neck.  I tried them on myself backwards to check that, then lowered the neckline to where I would want it.  I didn't tell her she was wearing them backwards. And in fact one of the stealthy things I did was to remove the tag and sew it back into the collar on the other side to make it look convincing like the old front really was the back. 

There are also restrictive clothing for alzheimer patients you can buy online that might be more appropriate for daytime, still with the zippers in the back. Or you can look for loose jumpsuits with a zipper and do the same alteration. 

If you aren't handy with a needle and thread, you could hire that out to someone who does alterations. 

You still might have to wrap a bandage or something over the drain so she can't grab it through the fabric, but this would prevent her from lifting her shirt up and having direct access.
I'm so sorry you are dealing with this. It's not clear from your post, has the surgery happened yet?
Indeed it is, fortunately for us, the Head of the Oncology Department's a personal friend, so we're getting the best of care and the entire surgical department convened twice already to find the best solution
You have some very smart ideas here - thanks!
Pretty good idea, we'll surely try that out!
It's happening tomorrow, just trying to figure out potential solutions ahead of time
Still, try to find any alternative possible. My father had bladder surgery and had a Foley catheter for several days that he kept trying to pull out. Those things can't be pulled out and trying to do that is painful but he still kept trying.
I assume Grandma's surgeon is aware of her Alzheimer's and her level of functioning then? Is the port permanent or will it come out at some point?
Trust me, if there was any alternative, we would have found it. The decision was made today after our 3rd trip to the hospital (each one consisting of a few days-weeks) regarding her stomach infection, and the previous solutions and antibiotics are simply not stopping it as it's growing from a dead tumor tissue. Major surgery is of course off the table at this point.
They are, and it is as permanent as they come, yet can still be ripped off entirely by someone who doesn't know they have a tube in them
I hope it went well - it is so hard for them to adjust to any change, take care!
Was Grandma's geriatrician/neurologist/whoever she sees for the Alzheimer's consulted? That's the person I would try to get in touch with either before the end of the day today or first thing in the morning, if that's possible. She may need to be sedated long-term to keep from ripping it out when the person watching her turns her head for one second. I hate to be the person to say this, but given your grandmother's age and advanced Alzheimer's the most compassionate thing might be to cancel the surgery and provide palliative care for the cancer. It sounds like the person with her won't be able to go to the bathroom or have their attention off of her for even one second. She may need to be restrained at all times to keep her hands off of the port. That just doesn't sound like a quality of life at all, you know? I'm so sorry, maybe someone else here or her Alzheimer's care provider can tell you differently. You could also try the Alzheimer's association hotline and see if they have any ideas better than constant sedation, but this port just sounds like it's going to cause your poor grandmother so much discomfort and confusion and hardship during her end of life.
We are definitely nearing the end of life anyway, we would like for her to go out easily and painlessly however, and without the drain that's probably not going to happen.
This situation is precisely what I am afraid of, she'll most likely be walking again in a month or so, and we are unable to have our eyes on her 24/7 every single second.
