I'm using a throw-away acct for  obvious reasons.

If something doesn't change, I have a dead-serious plan to kill myself in ~20 years.
I can't speak for myself as I don't know my genetic history (adopted) but my Mom has mentioned more than once that she and my Dad invested in a plan for long term care should she need it one day (her Mother has dementia and Grandmother had dementia) which, as her child, I'm very thankful for!
yep, doctor assisted suicide is legal here BUT you have to be of sound mind. i'm hoping at some point we'll be able to arrange assisted suicide for future issues but that's gonna be a really touchy subject so it's unlikely. failing that i'm hoping i'll know it's happening and just end it myself. i have absolutely zero desire to put my family or anyone else through the shit i've been going through. worst case i'll be leaving very clear instructions to just throw my ass in a home and forget i exist.

&#x200B;

when i was younger i always wanted to die before i got to the point of being unable to fully care for myself. i had never really considered dementia as a possibility at that point just more a lifetime of wear and tear limiting my abilities. now that i'm stuck living with the instantly of someone with dementia i'm dead set to make sure i never put that burden on anyone
Wills, living Wills, Health Care POA, yes.  

Also, we're seriously paring down the junk we have around (much of it stuff passed to us by parents who were going into assisted living) so our kids won't have to deal with the messes we've had to deal with.  My mother, who is the one that has the dementia and just went into a long term care facility, has a house that is just a total wreck, with important papers stashed everywhere, pretty much every piece of mail she's ever gotten since 2005 stuck wherever there was a nook to stick it, just too much stuff stuffed everywhere.  Last time I was there looking for important papers we found that they had probably a dozen suitcases taking up an entire closet in one of the smaller rooms - probably stuffed with who knows what, we were afraid to look.  I refuse to do that to my kids.  

Anyway, we are also looking into a long term care policy for us both, and prioritizing projects that will allow us to "age in place" here in our home.
It’s on my list to do!  My parents had POA and living wills set up when they were in their 50’s. 

Having both was a huge help for us kids when dad was sick and passed away and then we became mom’s carer as she had early onset dementia at the time. 

You just need to make an appointment with an elder law attorney (if you are in the US).
I haven’t contemplated this but I can definitely see where you are coming from. I wouldn’t wish this disease on my worst enemy.
I am. Thank you! Money’s tight but I’ll save. It’s well worth it I think
