I was about to write something very different, then I realized you are the one afflicted as most that post here are caregivers.. My mother had similar wishes and a pact with my father, I suspect, who passed before she did. She confused him and I after a while and asked if I would "do it now" or say "it is time", so I understand. I'm not from the US, but as far as I'm aware there are no options like what you are looking for there. I hope you are just having an off day and everything will be better tomorrow, but there are options out there and it would be prudent to organize things (living will, power of attorney, etc) asap. I'm sorry this is happening, but for what it's worth you seem to be writing quite well and I hope you have a lot of support around you..
Thanks for taking the time to answer and sorry to hear about your Mother. Confusing children with their spouse is common from what experience I have seen. I am sorry your parents did not included you in their pact and how they were going to do it. Sounds like they had seen closely what the patient and family had been through before since being past on is it's major trait. 
And my support system is trying too hard actually. My wife of 37 (or 38?) years thinks she can care for me even though I weigh nearly twice as much as her. I have seen it as it's worse. My wife has not. She can't imagine what caregivers go through. 
My son just changed duty stations from Hawaii and he and his wife bought a place about 100 miles away. My married daughter has always been living close. I will finally get a chance to sit down and tell them my wishes since my wife is in denial. 

Does our Mother give any hints (or anyone planning on doing this) on how she and he wanted to do it? I definitely do no not want my wife to be the one to find my body, especially after a gunshot wound. 

It is too bad a doctor can't diagnose it and give you a lethal dose of something that would put you to sleep, never to wake up.  I don't want it to leave her in financial ruin even after planning retirement for all our lives (I'm 59 so a long stay at nursing home could leave her broke).

TLDR; Barring assisted suicide in my state as an option, what can I do?
I'm not going to be the one to provide direct links, but there are some European options.
Thanks. I'll look into them.
