I felt the same way, so you're not alone.  I was relieved when my grandmother died, as weird as it is to say.  I honestly think "she" was gone way before her body lost the battle.
When I was in your situation, i thought of it like.. I don't think he's there (my dad) anymore.. I think hes long since gone.. But even if he was still in there, he would have had enough of this crap and would want it to be over with already. My dad was a real rough around the edges ol' vet though. He had pneumonia in the end too.

I used to have recurring nightmares about him with Alzheimer's when he was alive. A little bit after he passed away, i had one more dream about him, where he didn't say anything but he seemed healthy, and was looking at me like "wtf, you think im sick or something? Git outta here.." I was confused but weirdly happy i guess..?

In my imagination I just think of the whole thing as he's trying to tell me he's fine now. I'm like not even superstitious or believe in ghosts or whatever but oh well that's how i feel about it.
My beloved MIL passed 4 weeks ago, we had been grieving her loss for at least a year if not two before that. We wanted her suffering to end. It was still another loss when she passed. We were relieved, but also now there was a finality about it. You are not alone, at all. This is an absolutely horrid disease.
Your baba is the memories you have of who she was. If you can realize she was the person before and move on it is the best outcome possible. 

My mom is still with us physically but has been checked out for a long time. Even the moments of lucidity are long gone. 

Sending love your way.
My mother has dementia and although she still knows me when she sees me, she can’t function socially at all. Her conversations are one sided streams of consciousness that make very little sense, so essentially the person that she was is gone.
Dementia does take our loved ones long before death does.  I think often we grieve while they're still alive, because they're no longer the person we remember.  When they do pass, it's almost a relief because they're not suffering anymore.
My heart breaks for you. And for me, since what you are going through is my future with my mom. 

I don't know the answer to your question, but I don't know that you need one. In her healthy life, your baba was aware you loved her. That's what matters. Deep inside, she knows she loves you, but she may not know that you are "you".

I'm so sorry.
I'm sorry.

I had an aunt that passed away 4 years ago, she had a massive stroke and was in a vegetative state for 4 long years. 

In the long run I accepted that she never came out of surgery. It was hard on my uncle, he never accepted the reality until her body finally gave up, my cousins eventually did, before the end. 

Sometimes we have to put emotions to a side and rationalize the facts no matter how hard those facts are.

You can easily get stuck on an emotion to the point you can't function any more.
Unless we are hit by a meteor, most of us die in stages.  Its very possible that the person you knew as Baba has been gone for sometime now.
Oh, I understand you too well. I feel like my mom died a while ago and I don’t know when and I did get a chance to say goodbye to her. For the last year and a half I’ve been living with Alzheimer’s in this women’s body. Who doesn’t looks nor feels like my mom.
I ask myself the same question every day. My mother has dementia and she is so different that I don't know if she's still there somewhere, if she is trying to express herself but no longer can. I really wonder whether my mother is dead or not...and I also wonder if she would be better off actually dead or not. Sorry I can't really give you advice but I can relate and I know it is a very difficult situation. And I think even, if it's way easier said than done, that the best thing to do is to accept the situation and focus on the chance you had to know her and love her as she was before. 

I wish you all the best.
That's exactly what I feel like. Thank you so much


And happy cake day! :)
Thank you. I'm really sorry for your loss. Even though I know it's already permanent, you're right about the finality
Thank you for this. I hope your mom doesn't start this for a long time
