Does your sibling have your parent's permission to move into the house?  Can they provide documentation to that fact, or is this an unexpected demand by him/her?
Do you have power of attorney or medical proxy for your parents?
I would suggest you get power of attorney
This is an unexpected demand.  My parent is soft-hearted and I can imagine that my sibling could manipulate and get permission as the vascular dementia makes my parent's memory skills terrible, especially recall of phone calls.
Thank you so much for your reply.  Yes.  I have medical proxy.  We are both listed in the POA.
Thank you for your thoughtful suggestion!
> This is an unexpected demand. My parent is soft-hearted and I can imagine that my sibling could manipulate and get permission as the vascular dementia makes my parent's memory skills terrible, especially recall of phone calls.

Then I suggest that you talk with a lawyer.  While costly, most do give you a free interview and ideas on how to handle your situation.  

Plus, if it were me ... I wouldn't let him/her in the house at all.  If they get a foot hold by being in the house it becomes a legal nightmare to get them back out.  And it can be something as simple as them coming inside with the intentions of never leaving.
Have you considered becoming a guardian?  A living trust would tie up the money and could make them much less attractive.
I would remind your sibling that your parents set it up so you have oversight of medical care and decisions and that is easier for the drs and hospital to have one point of contact. I would not give them contact info.  

I would also make it incredibly clear to your sibling that you are not taking care of them physically and your parents aren’t taking care of them financially.  

Honestly I worry about it being an incredible strain on you to have three sick people in the house.  I think you should do everything you can to prevent it.
Ai yi yi!  Thanks for the heads up!
Thank you very much for your comments.  I will look into this.
Thank you! These are VERY helpful comments and I appreciate your time/thoughts.  Just for the record, I am in perfect health, but I do worry about the strain of another sick person in the house.
Agreed.  Find an Eldercare attorney and ask for a 30 minute consult.

Estranged children showing up, out of the blue is never a good sign.
Will do.  Thank you very much!
