Man, that really sucks. That sounds really painful. I hope your face is okay! 

My father in law had dementia, but I don't think he ever lost his spatial awareness. He had other issues, but that wasn't one of them. 

Do you have a way to combat this new issue? I'm assuming you've given it thought. Maybe lots of night lights are a good idea? 

Effing dementia.
Hi there, I wonder if these will help? (sorry if you're not in the UK! hopefully you or your wife can find something similar to the plug in lights)

[https://www.bltdirect.com/lyvia-0-95w-glow-light-plug-in-glows-a-warm-orange?adcid=pla&gclid=EAIaIQobChMIosjEp5ev4wIVR0HTCh3KwQRnEAQYBCABEgLFFfD\_BwE](https://www.bltdirect.com/lyvia-0-95w-glow-light-plug-in-glows-a-warm-orange?adcid=pla&gclid=EAIaIQobChMIosjEp5ev4wIVR0HTCh3KwQRnEAQYBCABEgLFFfD_BwE)

&#x200B;

We have them plugged in all over the house (usually because someone ends up tripping over a cat for the night time bathroom runs!) they provide a nice soft light that does light up enough to see you're way around but not too harshly that they keep you awake!

&#x200B;

Sending lots of hugs to you and your wife!
Thanks. My wife said we would get one. I hope I can sleep with a light. I have never been the type who can sleep with a television or radio on. I hope  a light helps.
Btw, you talk about your father in law like he had passed away. If so, how long after he was diagnosed did he pass. One doctor said get your affairs in order bc I'd be dead in 3-7 years. Another said I had 7-20 years. I'd like to live longer but I don't want several years in a nursing home, leaving my wife broke.
Thank you. I will check if they have a US style plug ins. A <1 watt plug in would be great to plug in around the house. Maybe save my mug.
I would be the same. I need total darkness. Have you ever used a sleep mask? I use one even in our dark bedroom because I wake up too early without.
I think that by the time we realized it, he already had it for several years. I'd say once we knew, he survived another 8. But the final two were in assisted living.

My mom has had it for about 5 years. She is fairly consistently confused at this point, and I often feel like her emotions are like that of an 11- or 12-year-old. She is also developing paranoia. 

The number I have heard is about 10 years. How long do you think you have had it?
3 years
Also, the only thing I my wife made me mad about all this was telling my two grown kids. Until now, only doctors have been able to tell. I wanted them to question me or my wife when they noticed it. 
Having it in my family, I saw the paranoia, mostly thinking their spouse was running around or stealing money from them. 
I really only can't remember names, sometimes my grandchildren on a bad day, sometimes a famous person like Chuck Norris or Steve Harvey on a day it is not so bad.
I'm sorry. That's horrible.
Yeah, my mom didn't want my dad to tell us, so he didn't, but we could tell pretty early on. That said, she probably had it longer than we knew. Looking back, I can see signs of it that we didn't recognize. I remember her being really angry at my father for several years. And I think it was because he was having to take over a lot of her chores because she was confused, but she lost her sense of self.
I was was not "really angry" at my wife but I did let her know that I did not want anyone else told. I at least want to be the one that tells them. I'm not ashamed that I have it but there is a stigma that some people have of it. 
And I am functioning much better than the Phd Dr that diagnosed it who told me to go home and get you affairs in order, get rid of your guns and quit driving  because I would be dead in 3-7 years. That was 3 years ago and besides remembering names and such, I am doing find. 
But seeing relatives who were in the late stages, I did see the anger. 
If I become angry (especially physically) with my wife, I will know it it time to check out.
Do you plan to check out intentionally? I'm curious because my mom and I have talked about that for us.
Yes. I wanted to talk to son, daughter and wife (all that matter) since son got his family and himself back from a tour in Hawaii with the Army.
It's not going to go over well, especially with wife and daughter but I have seen how bad it gets, taking away every ounce of dignity you have left. 
My wife thinks she can take care of me but this will get beyond anything she thinks she is equipped to handle. 
She got my mother into an assisted living home around the corner from us (she hit a home run there with get her on SSI that pays for her care along with SS) but my mother has all over her mental faculties. 
You said it was you and your mother, are there not any ones left that would want a say so?
Anyway, rambling seems to be a tell with Doctors and I have it bad. 
Anyway, good luck to your mom and you.
There are lots of people who would get to weigh in, but I'm the one who would decide for myself. Unfortunately, my mom is too far along to make a decision about herself, but we talked about it before I knew she had dementia. She is very religious (grew up a preacher's daughter), so I don't know if she could actually do it ... more for her sense of what she thinks is expected of her than for any true religious reasons.

If I get dementia, I will take a bottle of seconol and end it ... whether people want it or not.

Good luck to you, my friend. I'm sorry you're going through this.
Where would you get Seconal? I'm assuming you are not using a username that could be tracked. I have a dealer that gets Percocet for me but nothing else. I was hooked by a pain relief Dr 20 years ago. On my first visit, I was given 150 5 mg pure oxycodone pills, 90 1 mg xanax, and 90 10 mg flexerills after seeing only the nurse practitioner and doing some bs stretch exercises. After 1-2 years, that nurse practitioner left. The next gave my urine test. I was given piss test. They detected hydracodone, soma's and a few other meds I got of from friends. The new nurse practitioner was out to get me, going from a visit every 2 months with a urine test a couple times a year to once a month. Not sure why but I quit seeing the nurse practitioner. I had another dr who gave me 10 mg percocets and xanax along with demerol and he never checked my pharmacy or urine sample. 

I get flexeril and the wife gets Xanax. She gives them to take with other drugs as I had a dr who prescribed them to me before this crackdown on prescription drugs. 

Don't know why I'm saying this other than to say maybe the drug and alcohol abuse put my condition in overdrive.
My rant is over. 

Hope your mom and you are at peace with the choice that you both wanted. 

If my wife were to die tomorrow, I would carry out my plan to make my it easier on my son and daughter.
