This should probably be stickied:

[very helpful thread. ](https://www.reddit.com/r/Alzheimers/comments/beno4e/progression_what_to_expect_how_to_maybe_avoid_the/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app)
- Get your legal stuff in order (power of attorney, will, etc) while she is still legally competent
- Read everything you can to prepare you for what’s to come, but know the behavior may not be exactly the same (every person is different)
- DO NOT ARGUE; you will never win and it’s not worth the emotional frustration; unless her safety is an issue, just let it go
- it’s okay to lie to make her feel better
- make sure she cannot drive and consider getting her a general ID instead of license (my mom drove off with the dog and was missing for 24 hours)
- maybe let your neighbors and local fire/police department know incase she wanders
- you are not alone; people won’t typically openly discuss Alzheimer’s, but most people have experienced it (usually with grandparents)
- Alz.org has great resources and a 24/7 counseling phone line
Best thing to do is get into a clinical trial ASAP. All the rest is a combination of common sense interventions and quackery. The best news is that you’ve gotten a candid diagnosis, so now you have at least one doctor who’s honest.
Find out if there is an Alzheimer's Association office or comparable non profit for Alzheimer's near you. They may have support groups, classes, resources to help you. Groups like this, and AARP have free education (some from firms that want you to hire them) for financial and legal planning. Just general stuff but its a start. 

Find out if you have state or county level Alzheimer's office or office on aging or office on elderly affairs, eldercare or similar. Depending on where you live this kind of office may be robust or weak; have a lot of help to offer, or not. But sometimes, there can be a waiting list to get in line for things like grants to help you pay for things like day care or getting other types of assistance, that people will wait on for yeaaars. So best you find out now whats available. 

Some local colleges or universities have free resources, publications, etc regarding stuff like living wills, power of attorney, doa, how to plan for end of life stuff. For example my state univ has a law school with an elderlaw dept, and publishes a couple resources Alzheimer's assoc and county offices didnt have, regarding planning for end of life stuff. 

Maybe look up medicare medicaid stuff too. Also, if either of your parents is a veteran, they may be able to get additional help from the va. Stuff like monies for modification of home for their safety, and of course medical and meds coverage, stipends. 

Take pictures and videos of them, while you can get in more happy memories to record. Its slow progressing, so people don't think about this
Enjoy their company. Ask about their pasts, maybe w old photos if they got em. Dont wanna wait till its too late. Ask them about their lives when they were much younger. Get stories out of them. Ask their advice about stuff, even about stuff that hasn't happened yet but that probably will in your future. Anyway thats what i wished i did.

Good luck.
I wish I'd been told:  Lying to your mother is okay now :(.   If she becomes agitated about something, don't contradict her.     Don't try to correct her; it will make her more agitated and she probably won't remember it later.

And being the parent for your parent sucks.
Legality items aside, as a son/daughter, take moments for yourself to step out, breathe and come back. It is incredibly hard to see your parent struggle, cry or yell at you for reasons beyond their control. My mom was diagnosed with a degenerative brain disease that takes on the form on Alzheimer's but much more accelerated over a 1-2 year time span. 

&#x200B;

While this sounds extremely selfish, I wish someone told me that it is okay to set boundaries.  My dad more or less expects me to be at beckon call for everything with zero notice (for example: go to the bank with them so I can just sit with her, come over and do errands for them, etc) and that is incredibly hard for someone with a husband, a job, etc. 

&#x200B;

Stay as positive as you can, my heart goes out to you.
I’ve found great information (and a bit of solace) in a couple of books that I’ve read. 

-	The End of Alzheimer’s by Dale Bredesen
-	Genius Foods by Max Lugavere

Dr. Bredesen also has done a few podcasts that I think are worth listening to. Just google around for those. 

From my personal experience, medication and a clinical trial has done little to nothing for my father. I think the great tools we have to combatting this disastrous disease revolve around a complete lifestyle intervention.
CBD oil and Coconut oil, research those topics
Haven’t been through the whole thing...I appreciate the real talk on that
I would add OR SOMEBODY ELSE'S SAFETY. I live with Mom and my two children and the only things I will argue/correct her about are safety issues including my children's emotional safety, but even then it's just to quickly ensure they don't need any more therapy than they're already going to from all this and then redirect her as soon as possible. We went through a period where she was just so agitated and impatient with them and every interaction between her and the kids was just awful, but we've all gotten better at living through this together now.
Sadly Bredesen peddles only quackery.  He has no medical license in California and does no real research, only publishing uncontrolled and suspect case series.  

&#x200B;

Clinical trials have been disappointing, but that's the only way we're going to beat this disease.
(It wasn’t my post) You can tell the person who wrote that had some very first hand experience. It’s sad, a lot of us are/have been in the same boat. Feel free to ask more questions. Best of luck to you and your sibling. Peace to you.
Typo: I meant to say “having been through the whole thing.” Stupid autocorrect. I’m not OP, either, just meant to say I appreciate your linking it, and the original author taking the time to write it all out.

My MIL passed a year ago and so much of what you read doesn’t really get at the heart of what it’s like. That post sums it up well.
