I was looking into that for my dad but was told by a seasoned care giver that they give you a false sense of security. Prevention is way better. So we put those cheap alarms on the doors. That way if he opened a door we knew. Of course it scared the crap out of us when we open opened the door so we switched to a door chime sound. Worked great.

If you do get a gps device it needs to be on a non removable bracelet or anklet. If it just clips on there is a good chance he will remove it.
I would make sure local law enforcement knows he is a senior with dementia so if they encounter him when he wanders off, they know how to approach him, and they can have his info on file in case he does wander longer than usual.
My mom also had dementia and an ankle alert. She cut off two off them and left. So remember that it’s not a perfect system. They can be all kinds of confused but still determined to use scissors.
alarms on the doors +cameras in the house. its always good to be able to be doing your own thing and be able to pull out your phone and check the cameras to see exactly what he’s up to, and be able to hear when the door opens. another option ive not personally tried but read about on this sub is special locks for doors that are specifically meant to keep young children and/or people with alzheimer’s from opening them. theyre usually still really easy to open but work differently from other locks so they cant figure it out most of the time. problem with that is that it will likely fuel the anger hes feeling. another option is to ask a doctor about medications that might make him less likely to have those outbursts.
I've used an Apple Watch with Cellular for my Dad. This won't work if your an Android user. Also, if you don't want it connected to your Apple ID you'd have to connect it to a separate device with its own Apple ID. You might be able to setup an Apple Watch without a companion device now... I believe it was something they were working on.
I put deadbolts on the doors that are keyed both sides.
Locks and bolts my friend, besides constantly monitoring him. Then CBD oil and next Coconut oil. Check on those two. 

So far this combo seems to be working wonders for my mother in law.
Yes!!! My great nana gets fed up and often “escapes” since we took her car keys away. She’s speedy when she wants to be...

We’ve given her a flip phone with a bunch of important speed dial numbers on a piece of paper taped to the back of it. I put the loudest ringer on the highest volume on it, and because she craves talking to other people, she jumps to answer it when she recognizes that it’s ringing. 

She’s gone on walks without telling us a few times now, but we’ve always been able to find her if two of us each take a direction, and one of us waiting on the porch. Sometimes she can describe where she is (gas station, dollar store, intersection where the streets begin with X and Y...)

We almost wanted to put something on her, but she often takes things off and misplaces them/hides them (Vicks, socks, her watch...)

Anyways I hope this helps! I’m glad that you’ve always been able to find him, and hope that you find something that works for you!
[deleted]
I live with my Dad so if there isn't someone there to make sure it gets put on then I wouldn't recommend it due to the cost. It should also be charged nightly. 

I've also used Insteon (smarthome product maker) door sensors for alerts. Arlo cameras are also all around the house so I can check up on him while I'm at work.
