You might benefit from the lifestyle changes as suggested in this study. It benefited me, but then I'm almost 70.

https://docs.wixstatic.com/ugd/1a2e49_a6311e25b2e844c2986b03143356f415.pdf

/r/earlyonsetdementia
One other thing to look into:  ADHD.  The kind of memory problems you describe are also typical of many people with ADHD.  Doesn't mean you have that, but it's another possibility to look into.
Dementia at 15 would be very unusual. You should speak with your doctor. Think about things like sleep deprivation, or high levels of stress and anxiety; these are things doctor will likely ask you about and are usual cause for someone your age to be experiencing memory problems. But please see a doctor, the internet can give you advice and good questions to ask your physician, but no-one on here can diagnose you or prescribe\* you anything to help. 

The things you mention aren't necessarily cause for alarm, they sound like pretty standard level forgetfulness for someone distracted by other thoughts, which people in their teens very often are. But it's always worth checking with doctor on any condition or problem you feel like is getting WORSE over time. Think about it this way if it helps: when you wash your hair, you lose some, we all lose a bit of hair. The amount varies from person to person, and can increase a tad as you get older, but for the most part it's a pretty standard amount per shower for you as an individual. Now, if one day you went to lather up rinse your hair and a giant CLUMP came out, you'd be rushing your butt straight to the doctors office. However, if  just a quarter more than usual amount came out you might think... hmmm, that's a bit much but I won't worry. Then a few weeks later a bit more, and few weeks later a bit more than that. A year later you might find yourself losing what is the equivalent of that clump, but it happened so gradually you didn't clock it. That is why it's important to check out all gradually worsening conditions, they may not seem as dramatic as going from HEALTHY to SICK, but that doesn't mean that isn't what's happening under the surface. Hope some of that helps. I hate to think about a kid worrying about dementia already. It's something I feel too young to deal with and I'm 3x older than you.

\*(Other than get more sleep, someone your age should be getting minimum 8, but ideally MORE than 8 hours of sleep. There are a LOT of things changing, growing, developing in your body right now. Sleep is the time the body not only rests, but repairs and heals itself from daily damages, if you do not get enough sleep it can severely impact your memory and ability to learn as well. It's why there are lots of people pushing for school to start later for high school, kids are just getting some independence on bedtime, but often staying up later at time they really need more, not less, sleep. Pushing school back an hour or 2 seems so much easier to me than trying to convince a 16 year-old to go to sleep at 9 pm. But even on this don't take my word for it, go ahead and research ideal amount of sleep for your age yourself.)

OK, school marm rant over.
This may be invasive but if you have a history of severe abuse, you could have dissociation which can impair memory to an incredible degree.
Or they’re on the spectrum. I have memory issues and I have aspergers. Kids are fucking stupid. Lol (I include myself in that statement, as well)
