Then my bit of advice; don't.

You've been through this before with your grandfather, and to go back into it again would be a disservice to yourself and your family. 

Everyone has made their choices leading up to this point. Your grandmother has burnt bridges with her children, and you've seen your aunt's and uncle's willingness to destroy every bit of their lives. 

One way to make sure she is treated fairly may be to have her placed in a home, and get a Power of Attorney to handle her finances, but that will ultimately draw you into their line of fire once they get a whiff of $. Based on what you said they will come after you financially until they drain everything. 

You may need to have *her* outsource her care as much as possible. Get a lawyer to handle the finances. Have herself placed in an assisted living facility. Remind her of the storm that happened before, and let her know its going to happen again.

I'm sorry I can't bring much hope to you at this time, but you are aware of the dangers, and I think you need to make sure you and your family are taken care of.

Sending hugs.
Have to agree with the other posters.  This is not an uncommon story and it looks like there is Karma involved.  

Whatever you do, don't be motivated by guilt.  This can destroy you.
Since your grandmother is still mostly functional, ask her what she would like to have happen and take her to an attorney to get her wishes for her care and her estate put in writing.

If she's willing to consider a care facility, this is the time to visit some and make decisions.
If you are in the U.S. ask her doctor about getting her on Hospice. It’s not just a service you call last minute and it wouldn’t hurt to check. Also contact your area agency on aging and they can help you find some resources. 

I’m sorry your family situation is so rough. It was the same with my grandmother although not near as bad as yours. The best advice I can give you is to hold on to the good times no matter how small and to take it one day at a time.
I’m glad she’s still taking care of herself. This sounds like where my grandmother was several years ago. You are right realistically it’s not going to get any better. It can be super frustrating having to explain things over and over again, but, for me, it was worth all the frustration when she had her lucid moments. Again I am so sorry that you and your grandmother are going through this.
She’s still very independent, just clingy and having some minor problems, atm. She recently tried to get the internet connected at home and within a day or two her computer was locked up by a virus and she was being blackmailed by a scam caller. After that and a bunch of other problems surrounding it, she decided to have it shut off at home and continue using it at her hobby centre instead.

She develops some fixations with ideas that are provably wrong. For example: That we always have Xmas lunch with my in-laws and she spends the whole day alone, when we ALWAYS split the day 50:50 ant take turns for lunch. She insists that her sleep is deviating from her normal pattern, but she has been describing exactly the same sleep habits/ schedule for more than a decade. She goes to sleep between 7 and 8 and wakes up about 11, stays up for a couple of hours and goes back to sleep until 5-6. She has a nap of about 1-2 hrs after lunch. Every time I talk to her she tells me almost the exact story and tells me how crazy and unlike her it is. Just lately, I noticed that if anyone mentions sleep, she immediately interrupts and launches into the speigl. 

She can’t back down from the fixations/ returns over and over despite setting her straight. She is taking care of herself fine for now. A lot of time you’d never tell there’s anything wrong, certainly no one else seems to have noticed, but most of her contemporaries are also of advanced age, and they seem to have some denial that any of them could ever develop such a thing.

It’s just like her mind has a few scratches and whenever she gets to that part the needle has to skip and go back, but given her age and health problems, I know realistically, this isn’t getting better.
