Sorry to hear about your Nan!

You might find [Teepa Snow's videos](https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=teepa+snow+dementia) on YouTube helpful, there's a lot of very good info in there which might give you a few ideas...

Hope that helps!
Do you see her quite often, or is this the first time in a while? I find that with people with dementia I tend to get used to how to talk to them based on recurrent interactions, and that you can sort of build up your own methods from that.

In terms of understanding you, adding in things like hand guestures, making sure she's looking at you whilst you're talking etc can really help. Giving somebody two different ways to process the information you're giving is great (ie a guesture and the words).

Negative feelings towards people can unfortunately be a big part of dementia for some people, but you're fine to disagree with her - 'oh, i think aunt was trying to help you' etc. 

i wonder if the posessiveness is coming from a place of anxiety for her.
A few things I have learned while caring for my father:

1) Have a sense of humor and try to turn tense moments into something silly, funny, or whatever. 

2) Re your aunt, when she says something negative about her, gently remind her that your aunt is a good person. People with dementia can get paranoid and think people are taking advantage of them. Try to find out why she thinks what she does and (if appropriate) try to remind her of her daughter's good qualities. My dad would accuse me of stealing his clothes and selling them for money. I would try to rationalize with him that his clothes aren't worth anything so why would I want to steal them? Sometimes being rational would work, sometimes not and I'd have to walk away. Sometimes I could temper his darkness with humor. Every day is different! And maybe your grandmother has a legitimate reason to be angry or have negative feelings toward your aunt. In which case, there may need to be an intervention.

3) lack of understanding: In cases like watering the garden, when you are not understanding her, just act like you do. If she sees through your ruse, that's OK. Don't worry about it. I try to divine what my dad is trying to say and sometimes I can, sometimes I can't. Sometimes he gets frustrated. I offer a heartfelt apology. Sometimes, if there is frustration and lack of understanding, maybe he mentions there's something wrong with his brain, I'm very honest with him about his diagnosis with dementia and my own feelings, I tell him I'm doing my best. He has always responded sympathetically to that kind of openness. 

4) Possessive about what's hers: just don't argue. If she gets possessive about what's hers, acknowledge that x is hers, and when she calms down, ask if she would be OK with sharing (without trying to get her to recall that she had made a previous statement about her intentions). Or not. Roll with her mood / feelings / state of mind that day. 

The more time you spend with her, the easier it will become to talk to her. Honestly, the beginning is the hardest because she is quite aware of the feebling of her mind. As she becomes less self aware, she will lose that argumentative, angry attitude. At least mostly...

It's hard and doesn't get easier until she passes away, to be honest. So try to relax into her, try to enjoy your time with her, and be flexible in how you allow yourself to respond. And get in touch with her silly side so you can have some good laughs together. Make the most of the time you have to spend with her.
I like to talk to my gran like this.

Hey Gran how are you doing Gran?

Does Gran want to go eat dinner?

Its important for her to understand that you are talking to her. Even if she sits and smiles at you that will at least make her happy
Distract and redirect.  Your grandma is losing things like object permanence and may have paranoia about "stealing" because that's the "logic" her brain has now.  "If it's gone therefore someone must have taken it." One of my elders was always convinced people were stealing their laundry (when, you know, those people went to launder it).  They were also paranoid a wallet  for them so they could "treat" relatives to things (and then snuck it back in later after they "spent" it).  You basically want to employ similar tricks to what you might use on a toddler.  Get her to refocus on something else.
Here's what's worked really well for me with my mother.   Talk about memories.  Old memories, the ones she'll still have contact with.  "You told me you met Granddad at a party; do you remember what you saw in him?"   For whatever reason, a lot of demented people remember the far past a lot better than they remember recent events.

Even when my mother is really mad, she enjoys talking about the family silver, or the desk her dad made for her, or the clothes she made for us when we were small.
Yes! The Teepa Snow videos are great. She also does live webinars on occasion where you can ask her questions directly.
