Honestly I'm going to guess you are younger so here goes:  


It sounds like you are already on the right track, little goals here and there.  


Help her in physical therapy if it's needed, at home and in the clinic.  


Take some time for yourself, a minute here, ten minutes there.  


You are at the mercy of a higher power, it's called insurance and the billing department.  


The bills will come in, they'll trickle in over months and they'll be staggering. Prepare for that now and learn negotiating tricks.
If anyone has asked to help, accept it. If you have friends and family that are willing to come do the core care for a day or afternoon get them “scheduled”.  For example they can schedule Saturdays and you can get someone (or a couple people) to be there for 4-8 hours so you can go and decompress. It may be to find a friend to go do some sort of activity (hike a trail, see a movie, play a round of golf, go shopping whatever) so that you can clear your mind.

Don’t fee bad to ask people for help. Help can come in many forms. From bringing over a meal so you don’t have to cook to mowing the grass or other housekeeping chores. 

Find a friend that knows the situation and you can use them to vent. Just to get the frustrations off your chest. Vocalize them so it’s one less think you are trying to mentally manage.  Writing them in a journal can also be a useful technique.

Places like Wal-Mart and other grocery stores have started offering to shop for you. We use a regional chain that charges a $5 flat fee. Create your grocery list online and schedule the pickup. We have found that the time and effort is one place for us that is well worth not having to go grocery shopping. To keep things in perspective, grocery shopping could also become an activity you can do to still feel productive while you are able to step away from the daily core care.

Make sure you are eating well. It is very easy to get caught up in the “fast food because it’s convenient” mindset, but that can make things worse as can end up being lethargic and suck the energy out of you and can impact your ability to care and your GFs recovery. This is a tough one.  No doubt about it. Just keep it in mind and try.

Find a routine. If you need to go to the extent of writing out a daily schedule so that you are one the same page. Discuss things like the need for you to have some time to recharge to better help her.

Anxiety and depression will most likely work its way into both of you. Don’t ignore it. If you need to seek professional help, do it. Having that person to vent to will help with this.  If she has someone that can be that person to vent to besides you, that will help both of you.

I am sure there are other things and hopefully other will respond and offer their thoughts too.

Kudos to you for sticking by her. It is very tough being the care giver, and often people will ask how she is doing and rarely do they ask how you are doing.  When they ask be honest. You don’t have to turn every conversation into a venting session, but stating that you are all exhausted and she has had a bad day is important.  The generic “OK” when the reality of the situation is different adds to the heavy load you are carrying.

She will have bad days. You will have bad days. Celebrate the good days and fight against the bad ones.

Use Reddit to find a way to encourage someone else. Do it daily. It could be as simple as telling someone thank you because their art or meme or whatever encouraged you. If you can encourage others, it will help you.
Hey OP! Im an occupational therapist. I work an acute inpatient setting where i help teach family members about home safety strategies for things like getting dressed, using the restroom, showering, etc etc. I would place a huge emphasis on energy conservation and pacing techniques.  Most of her energy is being spent on healing so there def isn’t a lot of spare for moving around and being active. But the best way to build endurance is through simple cardio and simple activity.

What i usually tell family members is to try and have her sit up and walk at least once an hour for a few mins. If we see that this is too exhausting and she can’t keep up the regiment then try getting up every other hour. It’s extremely normal for one day to be tired and the next slightly more energetic. On energetic days don’t try and increase activity significantly, so she’s not over exerting herself on accident and then tuckered out the next 2 days.

Sitting up for meals is key. that’s at least 3 opportunities to sit up for about 20-30 mins a day which can be so exhausting but so good for improving lung and heart function (aka cardio).

When it comes to getting dressed, keep clothes set up for the next day and near by if she’s doing it independently. You could also make the task easier by using dresses or loose clothes that are easily to put on/off.

Showers are tricky. Every one likes to be clean. If you’re doing daily showers do them at the end of the day! Getting into a shower/tub and being hit by hot water and breathing through steamy air is extremely exhausting! It’s a lot of activity to wash your whole body and bend and move and then dry off and then put on clothes. If you guys have a shower chair use that. Sitting is easier than standing. If an actual shower is too much then sponge/towel baths are good too.

The concept is use up the residual energy right before you rest for the night. If you do it in the morning it could like zap all the energy for the day and then the day is just spent sleeping and recovering energy. 

——
I’ve also been caring for my parents. I’ve learned to make meals that we both will enjoy. What they eat i eat. When they eat i eat. Even if they’re not eating much. Watching movies with them and spending quiet time together. Taking time alone to sit in my car has been nice if I’m out running errands. Talking to friends, memes, using Reddit etc etc is so helpful. It’s hard to give specific advice there since it’s going to be unique to what you need. You shouldn’t feel guilty for taking to time step out and get coffee or just take a walk when she’s resting. Because there’s literally nothing you’ll have to do for a while. 

Anyways i hope that helps. If you have any questions  or clarifications please let me know.
Sorry you are in this situation. In short, take moments for yourself when you can. Try to get sufficient sleep and talk with friends and family. Good luck stranger, hang in there, and things will get better over time.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Don’t feel guilty about the eating fat food.  There are times you have to do what you have to do. I just bring it up as a reminder to put a little though in what you get. A couple minutes to get a healthier option rather than the more convenient one will pay off.  There are son many things you have to remember and think about, stuff like eating healthier options slips. By no means am I a poster child for healthy eating. I am far from it!!!  However, I can tell you that I found I felt like crap when I only only out of convenience.

My wife has MS and during the discussion with one of the nurses that we knew, she commented about how often there is a split between couples. It is sad, but it is also a reality.
/u/whomst_is mentioned a shower chair. We got this one and like it:

Medical Tool-free Spa Bathtub Shower Lift Chair, Portable Bath Seat, Adjustable Shower Bench, White Bathtub Lift Chair with Arms 

https://www.amazon.com/dp/B06Y5Z47HK/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_apip_IZzZDSfDYqKVe
Thats awesome! Sitting up during meals is a great milestone :) day by day friend. Feel free to PM me or anything.
Don’t push her too hard. She knows her body so let her lead. 

Fwiw if my husband tried to insist I do squats every time I was fresh out of the hospital, I would be *furious*
