I think it’s hard for an outsider (me) to know all that’s truly going on in another person’s situation. That said, my two cents is, if you’re able to move in with him while he recovers- do it. Stroke recovery can be surprising, especially if minor, and/or if he was able to take TPA. Have the doctors given a prognosis along with their recommendation? No one can say for sure, but ask them for a recovery timeline you might expect. It may be much shorter than you’d think. 

He’ll likely recover much faster and be much more comfortable at home, if it’s within your power- if it isn’t, don’t feel bad, you guys can work something out for a temporary stay at assisted living. (However, this can be expensive and difficult to arrange if it’s not his medical discharge recommendation)

Is he able to get home or outpatient therapy? ST and OT could help him learn strategies to aid his memory, and help him with daily tasks such as taking his meds. They could also recommend tools or items to assist, such as a large wall calendar in a conspicuous place, or a medication lock box with an alarm and dosage compartments.

Wishing you and your family the best!
Its a judgment call.  When we place someone into "a home" we say, "This isn't for him/her, this is for YOU".  At some point, he may require more care than you can give.

Also, many people who go into a facility, make a pit stop at the ER first. They have fallen and broke something.

As for them adamantly refusing to go, they all say that. After a week or two, they tend to settle in and enjoy themselves.
You moving in with him is the best thing for him. But you have to ask if it is the best thing for you and your own life plans. 
Honestly he will recover better at home than any nursing facility environment. If he is self motivated and you have a time frame for exiting, I would really encourage it. It will be a very valuable time for both you and him.
The staff at the hospital said it could be 3 weeks, 4 months or a year for his recovery. His age they said is a factor in it grandfather. He is 84 years old at this time and this is the first thing that has gone wrong with him. 

We could move in with him for the year. It moves us 40 miles south from where we are now. The commute wouldn't be ideal for work but manageable. 

They say they want to continue PT, OT, and ST once he is discharged on Monday three days a week.
I know it's a judgment call. I also know that putting a person in a home is for the caregiver over the person that wants it. 

My judgment at this time says he really doesn't need a nursing home. The therapy staff says he doesn't and the nursing staff says he doesn't. Yet in the same breath, they say he shouldn't be home alone anymore either. That is in which my conflict is.
