Make sure your Dad is hydrated. The difference in Grandma hydrated versus not was HUGE. Like lucid, able to carry on a conversation even if she didn’t recognize us versus almost comatose.

The dementia patient doesn’t recognize thirst, doesn’t remember what to do about it if they do recognize it or forgets to drink the water provided.

A marked bottle to visibly track the fluid intake by the caregivers worked wonders.
My father has good days and bad days.  Track what his days are like to see if you can find a pattern.  When my father plays cribbage, even if he can't remember one bit of it, the next day he's better.  Same with watching reruns of basketball games from the 80's.
Perhaps something called sundowning. https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/alzheimers-disease/expert-answers/sundowning/faq-20058511
I don’t have dementia but my dad and both grandmothers have it and I have a genetic disorder which makes it highly likely I’ll end up there. 
I’m already sick at 45. That being said this is how I am. Some days are great and I’m hopeful. Some are fucked and wow I’m not hopeful at all. 
I have no answers other than body’s are complicated and such is life. Sounds like he’s had a great run.

Not to be glib at all. I’m living this every single day so I see it very differently than most.
[deleted]
UPDATE::::       Ok, his Family Physician thinks it’s depression. My Dad never went farther than his family doctor, because he his bullheaded and was in his mid 80’s when his Parkinson’s got bad enough for him to go to the doctor.  So this doctor doesn’t know a lot about Parkinson’s.  

But, my Dad is 92 years old and is on Comfort Care measures only. He has really gone downhill in the last two months. His doctor thinks it doesn’t really matter what it is at this point.  He may be right, I don’t know anymore.  Poor guy.
 Too often it's just meds not being in the right dose or frequency with Parkinsons disease. This can greatly impact his cognitive functions! 
Many people aren't aware that the meds need to be evaluated and changed often as the Parkinsons disease progresses.
What could help you get insight in this is to make a chart where you mark his functioning per hour of the day : green marker for "on" (good/acceptable motor function, normal cognitive function), yellow marker for "off" (stiff movements, freezing, difficulty swallowing, brain fog /slow thinking), red marker for surplus movements, hallucinations etc.
Also note when he took his meds and what dose.
Show this to the doctor/nurse so they can evaluate his meds.
Very often that solves a whole lot of the problem.

Other underlying causes might be: (as mentioned earlie) dehydration, constipation, retention of urine, sleep problems (such as nightmares) to name a few.

If the problems started acutely, he might also benefit from an evaluation as it could be delirium.

That all being said, sometimes there can be a difference in functioning per day in all kinds of dementia, particularly in Parkinson's dementia, Lewy Body dementia and vascular dementia. But it is worth it to check out the above before, as it can be easy fixes with a lot of impact on his well-being!

Edit: I now see in another post of yours that he uses both alprazolam and tramadol, both of which are big no-no's for elderly people in general, but especially for people with Parkinson's disease because of the following:
- Alprazolam needs a very long time to be cleared from the body, even more so in elderly people (more than 24 hrs). This means everyday it will get added to the leftover dose from the day before. Moreover it doesn't play well with Parkinsn's meds. There are alternatives that don't work as long, but usually it's best to try and stop it altogehter.
- tramadol is the number one pain med to cause delirium in elderly/frail people. It is often given as it's a weaker variant of morphine/oxycodone, but actually in elderly it yields way less adverse effects to give one of the latter. My advice would be to see a doctor and change the tramadol into another pain killer immediately.

Becauseof declining function of stomach emptying in Parkinson's disease, meds can pile up in the stomach and then be released all at once, which then could lead to the rapid change in functioning.
So an elder of mine likely had Lewy Body Dementia.  It's in the same disease process basically.  Parkinson's disease is sometimes confined to the motor problems, but sometimes progresses to dementia.  LBD is when the dementia hits before the motor problems.  

Anyway, so now that we know we are talking about a similar thing, my elder with the likely LBD was up and down all the time.  I saw others in their care facility on a fairly steady decline.  Yet, my elder would be all over the place mentally.  Some days reading the paper, other days confusing timelines and people.  Sometimes they were ready to talk current happenings, other times telling stories of visual hallucinations.  Though there was a very slow decline in their overall *average* mental state, it was like the most jagged trend line.  You'll see your papa have a very different experience than some of his peers with Alzheimer's and such.
Good idea, I’ll make sure to track his fluids. Thanks!
That’s a good idea. He has a doctor appointment tomorrow. I’m going to bring it up then. Thanks!
Thanks!
Ahhh, good idea. I’ll get him checked for a UTI. He doesn’t drink fluids like he should. I’m going to look for some fidget kind of activity online for him, he’s started taking apart the appliances - which, of course, never work right again!
Ok, this makes a lot of sense.  I’ll talk to his doctor.  Thank you.
That does sound like what we’re seeing. Thank you.
