There are two different kinds of genetic predisposition: causal gene mutations and genetic risk factors. If you have familial AD, it doesn’t mean you will definitely get the disease unless you have a causal mutation. 

Things that will decrease AD risk include education, stimulating work or social life, proper diet (google the MIND diet), proper sleep, and regular exercise. There are a lot of things you can do now to decrease your risk or at the very least, increase your cognitive reserve if you do develop it later in life. 

Source: I’m an AD researcher
Anything that is good for the heart (heart healthy diet, exercise) is good for the brain.

Some research I've seen says to keep your blood pressure in check. High blood pressure slows down oxygenated blood to the brain. BAD! The Mediterranean diet is an excellent choice (also look at the MIND diet, similar but with a little more brain health involved).

I've also read that people that speak more than 1 language have a lower risk of dementia/Alzheimer's.  Both your Dad and Grandma have younger onset Alzheimer's so I'd find a neurologist that will take you seriously and then you need to insist on memory screening years before the medical profession even starts thinking about doing them.

Lastly, I just read, like yesterday, that sleep irregularities may be an early sign of the disease. If you start having sleep issues I'd demand some screening. You'll have to be a loud advocate for yourself but you know how important it is.

Oh, have you ever looked at the Alzheimer's Assoc trial match for research into the disease? You might be perfect for a trial that may help you and others. Their website is alz.org
That’s what I’m hoping to do, that if I am proactive now that later on it can slow/prevent AD from developing. It makes me nervous because I’ve read that AD developing before 65 is early onset and two direct family members have developed that. I’ve also read that it if that’s the case then I WILL develop it and nothing I can do would stop it but I’m hoping with early steps that I can beat the odds. Luckily I have a job where I do customer service and am active and walking miles every day. I also read the Mediterranean diet can help balance and prevent later diseases like Alzheimer’s, heart disease etc.
AD researcher, I don't know if these are fair questions to ask you, but here I go. 

We are told that the cure for Alzheimers is just around the corner. Do you believe this to be true? And when the cure comes will it be an eradicate the disease cure or a cancer cure where some forms are controlled/eliminated much better than others? If a person is in the early stages, what will happen to them? And with a younger person (58) in the early stages would you hold out hope for a cure or a seriously major lifestyle improvement to come in time?
Yes, as far as diet in general, what’s good for your heart is good for your brain. 

As far as early onset is concerned, people with one or two copies of the E4 allele of the APOE gene tend to get AD earlier than others. People with gene mutations can get it as early as their late 40s-50s. You can find out your genetic risk if you want through genetic testing like 23andMe. If you want to know.
These are fair questions and I will do my best to answer them as honestly as I can. 

A cure means once someone has a disease, there is a treatment that will stop progression or even reverse the damage. A prevention would stop the damage from happening from the start. As of right now, I don’t believe any current drug trial is any where close to finding a “cure” in the way you mean it. Most trials have all moved to finding a prevention. 

Many people I have talked to in the field and many seminars and presentations I’ve been to generally agree that there will likely never be a way to reverse any damage that is done due to AD. Once someone progresses to the point of actually having dementia, it is honestly similar to end stage organ failure of a long standing disease that has gone too far to fix. To our best knowledge in research cohorts, we can tell if someone is on the trajectory to get AD some 20 years before they ever get dementia via cerebrospinal fluid analysis.  That means this disease starts decades before the first symptoms show up, but once the symptoms show up, it’s too late to really do anything but treat secondary symptoms like sleep disturbance and depression. 

Right now, the success rate for late stage AD drug trials (that is, a “cure”) is 0%. Many pharmaceutical companies have lost so much money with investments into late stage drugs (like Pfizer) that they have pulled out of AD trials all together. The ones left are shifting almost all their focus to prevention trials with populations that don’t have symptoms yet. That’s why this blood test is such a big deal. We can get people early enough to see if a drug will help *before* the brain is irreversibly damaged. 

People are very hopeful for a prevention. Not so much for a “cure”. And sadly, even if a prevention is found in the next few years, those pharmaceutical companies will be trying to get years and years of investments back and it will be outrageously expensive. 

It’s depressing. But everyone is holding out hope and working very hard every day to figure this out. Some of the best minds in the world are working on this problem, and even though we may not have a cure, we are finding many small things every day that improve the quality of life for people with AD. Things like sleep, diet, exercise, being socially active, animal and music therapy have been known to drastically help.
Thanks for this comprehensive response.
You’re very welcome. If you have any questions at all, please feel free to message me.
