Hi, Memory Care Director in the states here!
Most adult day centers will include active programming, music therapy, cognitive stimulation, social engagement, physical exercise classes, etc. Some will also provide transportation to and from if you live within a decent radius. Costs will obviously vary, I highly recommend reaching out to your Alz resource center wherever you live as a starting point, and then definitely take a tour of the day center. Are the participants engaged? Are they around the same cognitive level as your dad? Can you see him forming a social group with them? How are the staff, are they actively engaging with everyone, or are they being more passive? Inquire about staff training. Communication and engagement with someone with any kind of dementia looks very different than that with the average senior. 

I applaud you on this difficult decision. It is often the hardest one a loved one can make. However, a positive social group has been scientifically proven to improve the lives (and brains!) of those with dementia. Also recognize that this is a step toward healing for you too. So often, caregivers are burdened thinking they have to do it all. You don’t, there are so many resources out there for you and your dad. Let them take the burden off you so you can focus on being a son/daughter again, not the caregiver. Best of luck to you and your family, my friend.

Edit: also, your Alz center should have a list of support groups in the area. It can be so beneficial to connect with others going through this with you. We are stronger together!
There’s a program called PACE that started in California but is now in several places throughout the country that provides structured programs for day care centers that cater to individuals wishing to live in their community but still need some assistance. There is a place in El Paso (and within 1-2 yrs will also be in San Antonio) called bienvivir that provides the care that you may be looking for. My dad has someone come to his home for 2-3hrs 6 days a week that helps him with cooking and cleaning, and they take care of all his medical needs as well. In your dads case, perhaps personal hygiene can be arranged for as well. Some locations also have a live-in memory care facility. npaonline.org is their website which you can get more info and to find if a center exists in their region. Best of luck and may God’s grace and peace be with you.
Sorry to hear that - wish I had some advice for you. ❤️ stay strong!
I'm so sorry to hear what you're going through. That's a lot to deal with. When it rains it pours, clearly. When I was considering day care for my mom I called my local Alzheimer's society, they then gave me a list of places to call up, so I phoned and went to visit some places by myself first. Long story short, it's the best thing I've done lately, because they are professionals who know exactly how to look after and entertain people with Alzheimer's. I actually think it does my mom good to go there. I was really reluctant at first and felt guilty about taking her, but now I don't feel that way. I'm in the UK and pay £60 (about $75 USD) for 9:30 til 4:30. The Alzheimer's Society were a good first place to call for recommendations. Oh and it includes breakfast, lunch, tea, coffee, snacks, activities etc. For a few dollars more there would be transport too but we use our own car.
Oh wow I can’t thank you enough! Thanks for taking the time to share this valuable information. I’m going to call tomorrow and drop in for some visits. I might respond back with some questions once I’ve done that if you wouldn’t mind. Thanks again for your kindness and willingness to share.
You are too kind. I sure appreciate your sweet words of encouragement. 💝
Thank you so much for your reply and feedback. Embarrassingly enough, I didn’t think to call the local Alzheimer’s chapter for advice. AND I’m in healthcare myself. When it’s personal and you have so much on your plate, sometimes the obvious completely evades you. I really appreciate this and will call them tomorrow. Appreciate the reassurance as well. So much guilt involved. I’m so thrilled it turned out well for your mom. 

I’m All ears for anyone else willing to share...as you can tell, no information is to small to share. I really thank anyone who is kind enough to share any information.
You're very welcome. I try to reply to questions on Reddit because the only good thing about this horrible situation that I'm in is perhaps being able to share some advice or information with people. Good luck with your phone call. Another tip - depending on how your dad is, you can sell it to him as a ' new social club that's opened' or 'a community centre that's looking for volunteers'. Which seemed to work with my mom. If there's anything else I can do to help just let me know!
