Your first call is to Social Services to see if you are possibly eligible for any benefits.  Your second call would be for a 30 minute consult with an ElderLaw attorney.  It shouldn't be that expensive.
It's a little complicated.Has he signed a Power of Attorney over to your mother yet?  If not, then he needs to do that while he can still comprehend what he's signing.  Because this will be important for her to have when he gets to the point where he can't make any decisions, and the house absolutely needs to be sold.  Sounds like she has access to his banking so that he can continue to pay bills. That's all good, but make sure she has that POA.

He has already decided to live with you, so, if he wants, he can sell the house. However, another way around this might be to investigate on your own, what memory care facilities are open, how much they cost, and what they offer. Talk to others who have gone through a similar situation, and go look at the places they sent their loved ones. Once you have the costs, this will be info you can share with him that will point to the necessity of selling. As far as the daughter, you will have to get an attorney or a restraining order forbidding her to live in the house. It's called a move out order. If you have evidence (documentation -bank records) that she's taken money, that's valuable info for the judge.  Also, document what happens, and the dates when she's texted or called him and harassed him about the house.

Read up on [Adult Protective Services](https://elder.findlaw.com/elder-abuse/adult-protective-services-what-you-need-to-know.html).  It's good to know what they can do before you make that call.  Has he made ANY statements to you about being afraid of his daughter?   If you do, then write down what happened and when. Chances are, they'll call you back to determine whether or not there's enough evidence to begin an investigation, or if your mother has everything under control.

As far as the doctor, he needs to get a neuro-cognitive workup. Your mother should also be signed in for being the person allowed to ask for information and talk to the doctors for him.  Is he on private insurance now?  Does he need a referral, or can he just go to a neurologist?  Read through his policy and find out whether he has an HMO, PPO and how his plan works. If he doesn't have ANY insurance, then he can just go, though it'll all be out of pocket. He can, at any point, apply for Medicaid without the SSD.

Anyone can call the county and request a social worker to come out and make an evaluation of his mental and physical condition at any point.
Sounds like you may need a lawyer to pry the blood-sucking leech out of the house. That would my first stop, anyway. She's not only blocking your uncle's healthcare, she's indirectly siphoning money out of you since you're at an impasse until she turns loose of the house. I don't know all the details, but that's what it sounds like. Best wishes, and big hugs for your kindness taking care of your uncle.
My mother has POA, but unfortunately so does his daughter. 

He didn't actually decide to live with us; every day he forgets why he's here and we have to tell him he's staying with us for a while and make up something to placate him. He does not have the mental faculty to know that he needs to sell his house, some days he insists that he never had any strokes and that he's fine. 

The problem is it doesn't matter how much we talk to him, his recall period is only about six hours so all he can remember is that his daughter is living in his house and that we're trying to sell it, so when she calls him and tells him that, he thinks we're trying to do it out of malice.

He's not afraid of his daughter, he legitimately wants to give her a place to stay but he can't understand what's going on because he thinks he's only been staying with us a few days when he's been here over 6 months.

As for insurance, he's on the low income version of Medicaid rn so we can afford doctor visits, but they won't cover longterm care unless he has less than 9k in assets. 

I'll see about having a social worker out but the problem is that someone just sitting down and talking to him can't really see the extent of the problem. He can carry on a normal conversation without many problems, maybe a little confusion, the issue is that he won't remember any of it later. Basically his symptoms are similar to anterograde amnesia. His PCD agrees that it's vascular dementia, but the specialist he was referred to is hemming and hawing and saying that he just has some "memory issues" and she can't recommend disability.
Well, we can get her out of the house, the issue is that she's going to immediately start whining to Uncle that we're making her homeless and he's going to flip out because he can't understand why we need to. But yeah, I appreciate the support!
