Was there supposed to be someone with her - like a home health aid?  If not, you can look into home health aids to try to keep her at home longer. It sounds like she might need someone there 24/7. You could also try either moving her in with a family member or having a family member move in with her - but I would still look at home health to help take some of the pressure off her caregiver. Of course if it is unsafe for her to be home alone and you can’t do 24/7 care or if it is too hard to keep her safe in her home even with a caregiver, you may need to look into a nursing home. A good one would give her the freedom to wander the building and grounds, but have measured in place to keep her from wandering off the property. I’m sorry that you are having to deal with this. We had some warning with my dad, but he recently had some health issues that caused us to all of a sudden be in your position and trying to navigate/ figure out everything is so overwhelming.
Oh honey, I'm so sorry. It's not safe for your grandma to be alone. How was she before the incident that led to her hospitalization? Did she decline that rapidly?
Thanks for your reply. To answer your question: no, there wasn't supposed to be anyone with her. The last carer left in the evening leaving her alone and she almost immediately went wandering. My mum and uncle told the hospital that they didn't feel she'd be safe going home but the hospital still released her, and the first night out this happened! I think you're right about getting her into a nursing home - she can't really move in with us and no one can really move in with her. It's a lot for my mum because I lost my dad a couple of years ago so she feels like she has no one to support her.


You're definitely right that it's overwhelming! Sorryto hear that you've been in this position too - I wouldn't wish this on anyone!
Thank you! No it isn't safe but the social worker said we can't just put her in a home and they need to try the care at home. My uncle's partner rang to complain and long story short she's going into respite care on Monday for 2 weeks while my uncle is on holiday. Hopefully in those 2 weeks the home will realise she can't be at home by herself and will keep her in full time!

About a month ago she became very frail and the most confused we've ever seen her and in the few days before she went into hospital she did decline very quickly. It seems like one day she was fine and suddenly she couldn't hold a conversation, was very confused, talking to her mum who's been dead about 20 years and being incontinent all over her furniture. It's scary how fast this has happened.
Might she have a urinary tract infection?  I don't really know anything just that I read rapid decline like that can sometimes be caused by a urinary tract infection.
You're right about that, one of the first tests they did was for a UTI but the results came back negative. We were hoping she had one though because it would be so much simpler if these symptoms could be treated with antibiotics
