You sound normal for a college student.  Probably  just busy & possibly not sleeping well.

Dementia, in a nutshell "isn't  forgetting where you put your keys, it's  forgetting what keys do."  Since you're  aware of what you can't  remember, that's not dementia.
Dementia is a very generalized term- we all experience it at different times in our lives and most of the time it reverses once we address the underlying cause.  It is very unlikely that you are suffering from anything like Alzheimer's or any of the other conditions that we traditionally call dementia.  It is more likely that you are suffering from another health issue that is presenting with these symptoms.  Please visit your health center and consult with a physician.  If nothing is immediately apparent, consult a neurologist.  Take care of yourself and don't dismiss this, but don't work yourself into an anxiety attack, either.
Definitely chat with a doctor as it’s unlikely to be dementia but there are other possibilities, most of which are likely to be temporary/non-progressive, stress, nutrition, some form of infection. Silly to speculate too much, but eat lots of healthy immunity boosting foods and get plenty of sleep as well as speaking to the doctor. They should check for vitamin deficiencies, as several can impact cognition.
Worth talking to a doctor but my guess is stress is the biggest factor. The older you get, the stranger your body reacts to stress, even good stress. With my father have dementia, I’ve been very cautious with my own cognitive health and proactively talked to my doctor about it. We’ve searched for base causes including bloodwork and such to check for infection or other illnesses but ultimately, stress has lead to the biggest cause. When I’m on summer break and not stressed about work (I teach), it’s like I have my brain back. 

Of course speak with your doctor, but also look into ways to help alleviate stress. Finding an effective way to keep organized, eating well and sleeping, getting regular exercise. It’s all made the biggest difference for me. Good luck!
Try to see a doctor or a professional diagnosis. There are many other reasons for your issue, and much more likely. Such as overload of info, stress, dehydration....
Don't agonize over it before getting professional help. Can't you get it at college?

Stay strong and keep it up!! Sending good vibes your way!
I agree that you should talk to a doctor, but it's very likely that it's just stress. You mention that it's seconds before you can remember anything, as a fellow student I would chalk that up to having a lot of other things going through my mind.
