This is hard. My husband went through the same thing with his mom.  What we used to do is tag team. I would walk in the room and ask her “do you want me to make you something else??”  She would say yes. I would go to the kitchen. Make a lot of noise, prepare the same plate but re-arrange the food and go back in there. I would tell her “look I made you some rice and veggies and beef stew!  Let me know if you like it!  I would make a big deal and she would eat the entire plate.  

She’s in her late stages now so she hardly eats. But when we started this journey it was tough.  Be patient with her, remember that her brain processes information differently now.   Good luck to you!
With your Mom’s dementia, time is a fluid thing. The dish you fixed months ago, she ate yesterday. And of course there’s no reasoning with her. She is positive that what happens in her world is true, to tell her otherwise will make her think that you are not telling the truth. 

So... don’t argue with her, because she is convinced she is right. In her world, she is. Don’t get upset or get your feelings hurt, she’s just stating the truth as she knows it.

As her dementia progresses, this will happen time and time again. The best thing you can do is just agree with her and move past it. It doesn’t cost you a thing, and it keeps her calm and happy.  And that is the goal, isn’t it, to keep her calm and happy.

She will try your patience again and again. Stay strong, you’ll get through it. I try to keep a sense of humor about it all.
Thank you all for taking the time to comment. Lots of fantastic advice here - I read through it all three times just trying to digest it, and I will have to go through it again. It is all so foreign to me... I miss the Mom I used to know, and don't know how to relate to this new version of Mom. But what I really want to tell you is that I had a hard time reading your comments through all the tears in my eyes, tears because now I don't feel so alone. I have family and friends, they care but don't really understand - and you do. That is priceless to me, and it gives me strength. God bless each and every one of you for helping me, a stranger, to cope with it all.
Oh, I've been there. When my mom is on that mood I try  the following:

\-"Oh, I can prepare another dish, mom, but it will take a while. Why don't you take a sip of your tea while I go to the kitchen?"   


While I'm in the counter just by the table she is at, I'll make a big fuzz about "doing stuff" butI'm actually just heating it a little in the microwave or just transferring it to a different plate. Meanwhile:  


\-"Mom, do you remember my old friend so and so? guess what? She got a new job... yada, yada, yada..."

&#x200B;

When she engages in the new topic and lets go of her gripes against the food, I'll bring back the plate and show it to her, 95% of the time she'll just start eating with no problem.

Remember, do not argue. Do not engage. Trying to explain stuff to her will only make her focus harder on the idea, she'll feel anxious, upset, and stuff will escalate.

Sometimes, even with all these precautions she'll get upset. Mom can be really offensive when she is mad. She's called me names that most people wouldnt call their enemies. I try not to take it personal, If I where in her demented mind I would feel scared, confused and sad all the time. Let it slide.

Let go of the bad stuff and hang on to the little moments of love that you both share every now and then. When my mom is gone, either becaouse of her mind or because God receives her, that's all I'll keep.
Hi- welcome and sorry for the troubles that bring you to this forum. 

As you said,  “there’s no reasoning with her”. Her Reasoner is broken.  Best to not react at all. Try to not correct her, she can’t understand why she can’t understand and it probably just makes her anxious to have mistakes pointed out. 

Try asking her what she would like you to make next time. (Realize she likely won’t remember she asked for it when you make it, and may complain in a similar way again; you are just making conversation.) Draw out details about how she likes it prepared, memories associated with certain foods, times of year it tastes best , shopping for ingredients etc . 

Talking (writing or posting) about these experiences is very therapeutic for caregivers so post away! Lots of folks will chime in with “me too and here’s what helped..,) and pretend not to hear the muttering. 

Don’t take it personally, don’t argue, don’t reason, don’t correct, do stay positive, use distraction, try to do some happy things. 

Another good forum I’ve used is alzconnected. Especially good for searching key words and phrases to get tips from shared experiences.
That's when I offer a McDonalds cheeseburger or a peanut butter and jelly sandwich - I know that he won't change his mind on refusing to eat what I've prepared. Something completely different. I have the advantage of a McDonalds about a mile away.
My advice would be to say "you know what? You're right, i forgot we just had that, thank you for reminding me!"  The positive reinforcement can work to trigger her into a better mind space (who doesnt like to be told they're right and a thank you to boot)  then id do what others suggested and rearrange it onto a different plate. 
I'm a caregiver in memory care and learned that the best diffusions are to go into their reality rather than keep them in mine. "Oh, the sky was purple yesterday? Really? Does that happen often, were you outside or inside? That mustve been neat!" Often i will include a compliment in their reality like "you must have better eyes than me because i missed it". I've noticed with dementia that once a sour mood comes on it can stay and escalate and become arguing and fault finding. Compliments and most importantly VALIDATING is huge. She believes the sky was purple or it's the same dinner, you could turn blue in the face trying to convince her otherwise that she's wrong and everyone ends up frustrated. Validating whether it's true or not let's you move onto what needs to happen and let's her feel not crazy.
I recently cared for a man who believed every day he was moving out. We helped him pack and make plans, where was he going, who was he taking (side note-i got invited once!!) and then he'd go to bed and wake up with it again the next day. In between wed give him a really good dinner before he left and go outside for walks before he left etc. 
Im long winded here and im sorry, I just hope you can find the balance to let go of who she should be and be able to find peace with who she is now. 
Also, as a caregiver I will tell you that what you are doing is selfless and amazing. She may not be able to express to you your value but please know this is a big deal. It's hard and she would be very proud of you.
Try having her keep a log of what she eats, written in her own handwriting. You will have to be very diligent to get out the log and guide her after every meal. When she inquires why, tell her it's to help you keep track so you remember what you gave her. Then, the next time she thinks she's had the same thing, pull out the log. She can't very well argue with her own handwriting.
No, you are not long winded - this is so different from the way I am used to that the examples and details help. You are giving me the tools to be a better daughter, and I appreciate you. I will practice with the tools you give me. I am sure that Mom will be happier for it, because when our realities collide my reactions left us both frustrated. Thank you.
We did this with my relative why dementia who forgets she ate and used to accuse us of not feeding her. It greatly helped, especially as it became a habit. They love and need routines.
As a side note, the part of me that doesn't want to follow your advice is my pride. I don't want to agree with her, that I am the type of daughter who would give her the same dinner two nights in a row. Or the type of daughter that would neglect to feed her all day, as she sometimes claims. I guess that I will have to reframe it as I am the type of daughter who will put her pride aside in order to increase Mom's peace.
