I don’t know if they discharge because of the Alzheimer’s patient being “uncooperative” but when you take a dementia/Alzheimer’s patient out of their normal elements they tend to get very agitated and aggressive. My grandmother has Alzheimer’s and dementia, to the point where she knows no one (maybe my grandfather at times) and whenever she’s been hospitalized during this illness it makes her confusion that much worse. A lot of healthcare providers know this so once they’ve either done all they can do or have treated whatever complaint the patient has came in for they try to send them back to where they are most comfortable. I hope this makes sense!
This is pretty common in my experience. My dad has been moved from facilities about 3 times now. As far as I was informed it’s mostly because he can be combative and that can be an issue for other patients. I’m not sure if they are covering so they don’t get sued if something were to happen but it has been very common in my experience
Many hospitals have Alzheimer's or dementia units and this should be where your MIL gets her care. They know how to care for folks with these behaviors. In the meantime, talk to her doctor about managing her behavior - there are medications for this which may help her get her other medical issues addressed. Only the doctor can discharge a patient. The plan for her discharge should have been communicated to her caregiver. If that isn't happening she needs a care conference with family members and other members of the care team. Or, she needs a new doctor.
When my dad was in the hospital last time he was in the ICU and the CCU for as long as they could keep him to treat/observe him after his heart attack and bout with the flu and then they “discharged” him and sent him 2 floors up to be admitted to the geriatric psych unit.  He becomes very agitated and combative when he’s in the hospital but they’ve never just discharged him because of that, they handle it.
It does. Thank you!!
I have not heard of hospital's having "dementia units".  Although I think it is a great idea. 

I live in a city that has a very large medical center and medical school and it doesn't have a dementia unit. I know most assisted living facilities have dementia units separate from the general population.
