Paranoia can be a symptom of early onset dementia. Since she handles planning and organizing, you should watch for symptoms of lessening ability. My father for instance filed taxes but later we had to go back and refile to fix mistakes for at least 3 years before we had suspected he was having issues. You might be able to catch things if you pay attention, we didn't like many others.

But maybe she just needs a social life! Sounds like she has a lot of time to ruminate on the badness of the world. Having a purpose (and it doesn't have to be a big major thing) and having social connections has been shown to have a huge effect on longevity and brain health. Maybe accompany her to a few possible group activities until she has found a good fit and is comfortable?
It could be  a combination of things, but the first thing that comes to mind are changes in hormones due to menopause, and I’m wondering if she had any past drug use issues since you mentioned she was in the entertainment industry, which is not uncommon. My mom are that age was a bit paranoid, coupled with menopause, the fact that she used to do a lot of cocaine/drank, and she’s a bit of a narcissist, I think contributed to her erratic behavior.
I would get a psychiatrist opinion and go from there.
Thank you! I'll keep an eye out re: lessening ability, but I think the social life part is so right - I forgot to mention this, but a lot of her friends used to be from Country X and she's started cutting them out of her life/distancing herself to the point where our immediate family are her only close friends. She's very close to our family and we all speak every day, but otherwise she doesn't socialize. I've been pushing her to join a church or yoga or something, but she's not a fluent English speaker, and given her aversion to Country X I don't think she'd join a group in her native language... exacerbated by the fact that I'm moving to another state in a few days for the next two years, so I can't go with her. But I will continue to push her to try yoga, and was thinking maybe she and I could do a little mini book-club where we read the same book and discuss a few pages every day when we phone, as a way to distract her from all this Country X conspiracy stuff she's reading.
Thank you! The menopause thing sounds very plausible. I think she started going through menopause around 5-7 years ago, maybe, but she still cites it as a reason for her occasional moodiness and paranoia. Does that sound plausible to you, for that to affect her many years after?

She definitely doesn't do/has never done drugs - she doesn't even drink alcohol!
That sounds good - maybe she would enjoy an English learning class. You could position it as a way to increase her options away from country X!
It very likely sounds like it *could* be a hormonal imbalance. I would have her see a specialist and have them dig further to see if that may be an issue, good luck!
