Honestly, all you can do is play along. And find yourself a therapist or someone for you to talk to, things might get a little frustrating for you.
They call it “validation therapy” when you just go with it. It’s a legit therapeutic modality and keeps her feeling ok. You have to just figure out how to be cool with hearing the story a bunch of times! It can definitely test your patience when you’re already stressed out. We’ve been through it in my family ❤️
My mom repeats herself 3 times in one minute now. After a while you get used to the flow of it. You're not supposed to tell her she's repeating herself. She can't do anything about it. I just try to change the conversation if I can.
Call the doctor that ordered the CT scan and explain what she is doing. Suggest a one year follow up appointment. The doctor’s office will call her to make the appointment, leaving you out of it completely.  Once you have a diagnosis, there is medicine that can help delay progress a bit.  Best of luck to you both.
Does your mom have a neurologist or primary care doctor that is local? If not she needs one, and make sure you can talk to the doctor when the paperwork gets filled out.

Those doctors can order a neuro-psych evaluation which is a comprehensive test that takes about 5-6 hours. My mom did hers over two days and that’s how she was diagnosed. It doesn’t have to be through a CT scan or MRI. The test involves testing memory and a bunch of other things dealing with mental capacity. The patient doesn’t get stressed they just answer questions in a quiet environment with assistance navigating the test. This test also serves as a baseline to monitor progression. The main thing is the diagnosis can open doors for care options. For example my mom got physical therapy for her balance issues. 

Good luck. Also make sure you and your mom get a durable power of attorney for you for both financial and medical in case you have to make decisions for her.

Another thing is don’t forget to take care of yourself, and get support for yourself, if your mom has dementia you will need it.
She can no longer learn; therefore correcting her creates anxiety and confusion.
Watch 60 minutes tonite. Front Temporal Dementia. Two different types, one Speech, the other, behavioral. Often mis diagnosed as Alzheimer’s. Very interesting and informative.
Good to hear! Best of luck to you!
Over two years ago I started trying to get my wife (57 now) diagnosed. Her CT scans and MRIs are fine. Even though she bombed her neuro-psych test (to the point the psychiatrist implied she might be faking) they don't know why she has cognitive and short-term memory issues (that are progressively getting worse).  Her neurologists (4 total, two conducted numerous tests on her) say it is probably not dementia. They cite a landmark study where the odds of getting dementia under the age of 60 is 1 in 10,000.

I have seen numerous posts in this sub where a loved one under 60 is diagnosed with dementia. I even put up a post asking what was the smoking gun test that confirmed their dementia. But no one responded.

You mentioned your mother's stress. My wife was depressed, mainly because her world was crumbling around her. But the neurologist at the time said she has to first remove the cloud of depression before they could get to the root of her problem. So she spent almost half of a year going once a week to a psychologist and two psychiatrists before her neurologist started up the physical tests again.
Essential to have a formal diagnosis. There are a few possible causes for the simptoms you describe (although Alzheimer is certainly an alternative...), which imply different approaches.
You mentioned sinus issues. Know that loss of smell is a huge warning flag for Alzheimer’s & Parkinson’s! 

Recently Learned that 90% of Parkinson’s patients have loss all or partial ability to smell. Also learned that many times it’s a multiple dementia issue. It is for our relative w/ Alzheimer’s & Parkinson’s- Lewy Body.
[deleted]
Yes, this! Asap. It could get better with proper treatment, don't leave it.
[deleted]
And how is your wife doing now?
A couples of years ago my mom's repetition drove me nuts. Acceptance will come.
Sure, ok, make an appointment with a general practitioner, who will refer her for tests for a diagnosis. If the diagnosis is confirmed, the goal is to start the medicine that delays the symptoms as soon as possible.  It should delay things by at least a year.
Slowly getting worse.

She is driving me crazy. She goes from being terrified I will leave her to screaming at me for conspiring with and turning our kids against her. She accuses me of being controlled by one of my employees who is making me keep her from my work.  She says things to me (numerous times a day) that would normally end our 35 year marriage.

She is a pack rat, I have tried everything to get her to clean up her office, closet etc. She won't let anyone help and when she finally puts something in the throw away/give away pile she will look at it a couple of minutes later and decides to stick it somewhere else. I have to get one of the kids to take her out of house so I can thin out the mess.  I have taken numerous pickup truck loads out of the house, when she comes back she doesn't realize it. But try to take a piece of her paper or clothes that haven't fit her in 20 years it is WWIII.

She can still do light house cleaning but the results are getting weirder and taking longer.

She can't drive. She can't tell you how to get to common places a few streets over and a few miles away. In fact she doesn't even know what side of town she is on.
I'm so sorry.
So many similarities with my mother. She brings her two purses with her WHEREVER she goes because she is afraid they will be stolen by “the people who live in the house with us.” She wanted to call the police on me once because she believed I was stealing her money. I try to organize her things and she won’t be able to find something and SCREAM about how yet another one of her belongings were stolen. And she does not have a dementia diagnosis. This is still early stages.
Thank you for your comment. How old is your mother? Are you working on getting her Social Security Disability Benefits. I can give advice about this if needed.
