Yes, talk to social workers!  They can help with resources and will know what his parents are eligible for based on their medical insurance. Meals on wheels is another good resource- and is not costly (may be free).
He absolutely needs to speak with a social worker. Concerning home health care, Medicare should pay for that, with a doctor's confirmation that it's needed. Here's some info from Medicare on that:

[https://www.medicareinteractive.org/get-answers/medicare-covered-services/home-health-services/home-health-basics](https://www.medicareinteractive.org/get-answers/medicare-covered-services/home-health-services/home-health-basics)
If you're in the states I would call your local Area Agency on Aging.  They have lots of resources and will be able to help you get started.
I used to be a hospice nurse, and I don’t know if the Medicare regulations have changed, but with Alzheimer’s patients the disease could be so unpredictable that they tend to qualify for hospice a bit easier, and for longer than other diagnoses so you might want to see if he can be referred by to doctors to hospice. If you find a good one, they will provide medical equipment like hospital beds, help cover the cost of his Alzheimer’s medicines, etc. even provide home health aides and nursing visits all to no cost to you. People get referred to hospice way too late, because doctors are afraid of insulting or hurting the feelings of patient And families, and because of the misconception that hospice is only for the last days of life. In truth they can help out for longer periods. Hospice is not for people who still want to go through heroic measures to sustain life, such as chemo, tube feedings, cpr, blood transfusions, etc. I had one Alzheimer’s patient that was in hospice two years, way longer than most people are, because of the unpredictable course of the disease.  Please have your dad look into having one or both parents evaluated for the appropriateness of starting hospice care. Even if the time is not right at this time, at least the evaluation process can help your family learn what resources are available when the time actually is right.  Hospices also have a volunteer that can help with respite care, and they have social workers that can help with other resources, again all at no cost to you.
Look for a “Senior Placement Specialist” in your area. Try Facebook. 
These folks will assist you in finding help for your elderly parents and it’s a free service. 
I have two friends, former co-workers who do this. I thought it was ridiculous at first until I needed help with my parents! 
And I found out that placement specialist does mean you have to place your parents anywhere, they will help  you obtain services to assist them in their home. 
Good Luck to you & your Dad!
Look into Wellbeing Monitor Senior App, that's who my family now use.

My Grandma is overseas and we were having the same exact issues from afar

Their system in monitoring 24/7 and they allow you to add 3 caregivers. You can set it up what to and what not to notify you on but it will keep you updated and alert you if anything goes wrong. It's actually really clever

It would also lighten the load for your poor Dad
Thank you everyone for your helpful suggestions. I sat down with my dad yesterday and went over some of them with him and I dont know what the barrier is, but I get the feeling he's not going to look into any of the suggestions you guys gave me. I urged him again to talk to gramma and grampa's social workers and he seemed very dismissive of that too. He complains constantly about being mentally and physically exhausted from caring for them but doesn't seem to want to do anything to make it easier for him and for them as well. I know theres a lot of depression and despair at play here, which got me feeling guilty about living so far away and not being able to help him out :/

Thanks again everyone
It's such a difficult situation and your dad is a champ for all he does! At the moment if he doesn't take on suggestions how about temporary respite care where they can go for a few days or a week (or more) to give your dad a break? These things are pricey though. Is he officially a carer in terms of the government? Is there any welfare benefit he can get as a full time carer? His well being is just as important and theirs and in their later stages of their life he'll want to make sure he's having some quality time with them. I also sympathise that he's been left with the responsibility :( all the very best!
100% agree with the social workers. But to let you know, more than likely a home health aid, even for 12 or more hours a day would be cheaper than a skilled nursing center. Have your dad talk to the social worker at the hospital before your grandfather is discharged. As long as he has been there for for 3 overnights and has Medicare, he will qualify for a short term rehab, (20 days paid 100% by Medicare and up to a total of 100 days paid 80% by Medicare and the 20% copay may be paid by a secondary insurance if he has one and continues to need therapy) which gives you all time to get things set up before he comes home. And gives your grandfather physical and occupational therapy while there. You’ll also have access to the social worker to help with discharge planning to home.
