The fact that he opened up to you may speak to the fear he is facing. Might have been a mini-stroke.

Offer to go to the doctor with him if you see he is stalling. You could sit in the waiting room if he doesn't want you along for the examination. If this happens, maybe follow up with the doctor without him around: he may not have told the doctor everything you already know. And tell your dad you're going to do this unless you can be in on the doctor's consultation from the start.

I heard a good quote the other day: "Some people are just hanging on by a thread. You might be that thread."

Good luck.
As someone who struggles with clinical anxiety and depression, it sounds to me like a bad combination of the anxiety and depression. Unfortunately it can cause someone to stay stuck and the feeling of being in a constant memory or thought loop happens and is freakin awful. When it’s really bad it can cause short term memory loss.


I’d say go with your dad to the doctor and make sure someone is with him. If he’s stuck on invasive thoughts he could be in a lot of need.
I have seen older folks who presented with memory impairment whose geriatricians/doctor started them on an antidepressant before working up dementia. Whatever the case, your dad needs to see a doctor and start ruling out stroke, depression/anxiety, dementia, sleep apnea, heart conditions, various electrolytes and hormone blood work, the list goes on! The best thing you can do is go with your dad to the appt, get listed on all his HIPPA privacy forms so you can help advocate for himself!
Getting on an antidepressant was a huge help to my dad with moderate dementia. He still gets frustrated at the condition, but it doesn't send him down the rabbit hole of despair and anger that it used to before. He's still got his temper, and it can be ugly at times, but it helps him snap out of it quicker than before.
My mom had alzheimer's.

Both my son, and I had extended periods of severe depression, and experienced bouts of something called 

> *depression with psychotic features*.  

You can google that, there's plenty of pages out there explaining more about it.

&#x200b;

Anyway, irrational looping thoughts *that he's* ***aware*** *of* sounds more like depression with psychotic features to me.

&#x200b;

You say he usually refuses to take meds - My approach with someone like that (every boyfriend I've ever had, and my now grown son!) is something along the lines of

> I know you don't like to take pills for every little thing, but this isn't a little thing, seems like it's a big enough deal to at least give these meds a try.

&#x200b;

Hope this is helpful, good luck!
When my dad first started having symptoms (age 55) he had issues with short term memory and hallucinations first. 

I believe these were exacerbated by lack of quality sleep and malnutrition. If I were in your place and seeing my dad acting the way he was (the way your dad is) - this is what I would do:

Get him on a regular exercise program. Start where they are. Walking everyday outside in the sun. Some strength training

Take a hard look at their medications. My dad was on antacids that reeked havoc on his stomach acid levels and causes him to be deficient in vitamin b12

Get a good multivitamin that contains minerals (but not iron) and have them take one every day. 

Shut off all lights and electronics two hours before bed time. Have them take a melatonin supplement two hours before bed if they are really struggling to sleep. 

After all that - work to clean up their diet (no processed boxed foods or fast food) and get them into hobbies and social activities that make their life meaningful and to find friends. Also - start right away to try and get some financial help. We were never able to get my dad any help from the government for disability or welfare. They said he was a working aged man and that was that. Fortunately he was a marine and the VA eventually paid for his care. But at 62 he is barely alive.... essentially a vegetable and the road from start to finish was brutal. 

He was similar to your father. Lots of depression, mental illness, poverty and just a tough life. We thought he was just being an ass. We could never have guessed he was going to degenerate the way he has. Good luck to you. If you are able to save your dad, let us know. If you can’t, then understand that none of us really knows how. But I wish you all the luck.
Thank you so much for the response and I will take it all into consideration
Thank you for the thoughtful response
Thank you for your advice
My dad usually refuses to take meds but I will try my best to get him to take these
Thank you so much for the help
Thank you for sharing and I will take your advice on board
Does he take other daily meds? Can you maybe "sneak" it into his daily regimen? It sounds awful, but with the dementia you can get away with little things like that sometimes, he'll forget about it eventually. I took over meds for my dad at a certain point, so adding something new in wasn't noticed at all. I added in a multivitamin to help with his nutrition and stuff like that.
He doesn't! That's the issue I'm having at the moment
I see. Hm. Well, is it a conversation you can have with him?
I'm going to attempt to have it with him tonight
