It can last for months or years. I think it depends on how rapidly they move through the different stages.  It's common for them to pick one person that is "out to get them" and they get the brunt of their anger. The best thing we ever did was move my MIL close to us. I know that's not an option for everyone, but you should try to get them closer.  

I know it's not what anyone wants to hear but...There is no cure, it's only going to get worse.  Keep checking on your mom. She will need lots of emotional support.
My mother-in-law was suspected of undiagnosed early onset dementia in her late 50s. Back then her mind was still sharp, it’s just her social norms slipped off a cliff and she refused to see the neurologists. 5 years later when she finally receive the diagnosis, she has burned all bridges, good graces, and sympathy from everyone in her life, even her own daughter due to her late diagnosis of BvFTD (Behavior variant FrontoTemporalDementia) that she had to move out of her state to live with us.

The symptoms are eerily similar. Delusion, paranoia, irritability that can combust at any time with or without sundowning. For us, we had to make appointment with the neurologist in advance behind her back and explain that she’s now highly volatile and by the time we arrive at the hospital, off to the psych ward she goes to be screened. It takes her 18 days total in the geriatric psychiatric ward for complete diagnosis of dementia and her other health complications (diabetes). 

Presence of UTI can trigger aggression in some dementia patients. I routinely tests UTI with UTI strips on my MIL to rule it out. If your dad has diabetes, please routinely check for this because it can induce diabetic rage that’s going to be really bad in conjunction if he has BvFTD.

Do what you can and what you must before your dad destroys every good graces and respect from the people in his life. My MIL was diagnosed too late and had cut other people’s feelings so deep, even when we tell them that it’s her dementia that’s doing it, we never hear back from any of them. Seek help ASAP!

Edited to add: If all else proved negative and your dad remained aggressive, you might want to look into Teepa Snow program on steps to deescalate situations.

Another one to add, get your mom to file guardianship, conservatorship, and have  executor of estate paperwork ready if your dad condition further deteriorates. My mother in law nearly sign away her house and all her possessions for free to a scammer she met from her church after every one of her friends and other trustworthy church members blacklisted her for being really vile and mean (due to undiagnosed BvFTD).

If your dad paranoia, delusion, and aggression is permanent, don’t hesitate to contact the police to notify that your mom is living with spouse with dementia. In my MIL case, she became delusional and paranoid believing a dark colored man about to break into her home or already in her home and started calling the police on every person of color that walks/drove on the public sidewalk/road in front of her house believing they’re about to break into her home.
Bring your dad medical record with his doctors affidavit of his diagnosis to establish a line with the police so they are aware in case your dad make false distress calls, innocent people don’t get carted to jail or the morgue.

I apologize for being so grim but these are my family experience having my MIL living with us. It could be the stress that’s taking a toll on my mental health, for that I truly am sorry if I sound really negative. Just not wanting to see anyone else go through the torment my family is in caring for MIL who’s prone to violent, unprovoked outbursts.

Will edit to add more if I can remember any other useful things. Good luck to you and your family, OP!
If it came on that suddenly I would get him checked out asap, there are other, more immediate, potential causes that should be ruled out first.
has he seen his doc and is he on any meds? If he hasnt id say to get him to a doctor and see if theres anything they can do. And if you have a good doctor  that you could talk to about dad. 

 [https://www.griefhealingdiscussiongroups.com/](https://www.griefhealingdiscussiongroups.com/)  really good people and good resources
My mum has dementia and my dad is her caregiver. She is horrible to him constantly. I have been living at home with them and my youngest brother for the last two years. She constantly thinks that we are out to get her. Her paranoia and memory  worsen  when she has any sort of infection coming on.  I would love to tell you that it'll get better but it doesn't. I spend most of my time avoiding my mum because I annoy her so much and try to help my dad as much as I can because I can see how hard it is on him. Is there any respite care services around that your mum could send your dad? Or even health Care staff to come in to the home and give her a break for a couple of hours a day?
Thank you very much for your input. Fortunately my dad's mom was able to come to visit and help. She's been providing a lot of help and support. I make an attempt to call my mom every day. She's suffering with some depression. Luckily she has seen a doctor and has been prescribed medication to help.

I'm trying my best to get my parents (both retired) to move towards us. Fortunately we have plenty of space where they can live with us. 

My dad currently needs help with most basic needs such as getting dressed, showering, bathroom use, and eating.
Thank you very much for your comment and insight. I really appreciate it. Fortunately most of the family has seen him decline before this new behavior so hopefully there won't be too many burnt bridges. My mom has done a lot of the legal paperwork but I check to see if she's done all of what you mentioned. I've never thought of alerting the local police.

He went to the hospital and they ran a bunch of tests. Unfortunately everything looked normal so this might be the new norm for him.  My mom is looking into trying to find some help with taking care of him. 

 Thank you again!
Thank you. My mom has a call into his neurologist but unfortunately he is out of town until the end of next week. 

Any ideas on what may be causing it?
Thank you very much. He's on a lot of different medications for various things. Some for his memory and some for other medical issues. He has another appointment tomorrow. We'll see how that goes.
I'm so sorry that you all are having to go through this too. I was really hoping that it was a UTI but he wanted to go to the hospital yesterday and they ran a bunch of tests and could not find anything. She's trying to find some help. He's refusing any food or drink that she makes for him at this point. Luckily his mom is in town and she's been able to get him to eat/drink. 

Thank you for your comment.
Wow that's great your dad's mom is still healthy enough to help! I hope they move closer soon, just for peace of mind.
We alerted the police of her condition because at first we fear her wandering, getting lost and got hurt. As her disease progresses, comes the paranoia. She hallucinates a lot of dark colored man breaking and entering her home and has on several occasion called police on several person of color who did nothing beside drove/walk on public road/sidewalk.

Another of her hallucination was that a dark colored man with multiple assault rifles and bombs kept her hostage in her home. We shudder to think what would happen if there’s innocent bystander who happen to be at the wrong place and the wrong time when she made those false distress calls.

Alerting local police of her conditions made any responding officer act accordingly. The town she used to live before she came to live with us has law enforcement that’s not been trained to deal or understood how dementia can manifest; but the moment we establish her conditions with them, they drastically reduce use of force. Now, MIL is living with us and the city we live in has law enforcement trained to deal with dementia cases accordingly.
Was he previously diagnosed with dementia? I don't want to go all WebMD on you, but there are a few things that come to mind. I am not a doctor, nor in that field so I don't want to put anything down, just let (make) the professionals help.
Urinary tract infections are very common for causing abrupt behavior changes in people with dementia. You start being able to recognize it after a while (paranoia and angriness may become delusions and rage). You can even get strips to test for UTIs at the drug store on the shelves now. You could try that first or just go straight to urgent care.

Also, if your dad takes depression medication, low sodium could be an issue. This was a problem with my mom.

I hope this helps!
Prayin for the best, hang in there
That's fair. 

Yes, he has been. He's been declining for quite a few years. He needs help with almost everything and gets confused very easily.
My mother had early onset dementia as well. Knowing that he is already going down that path (I couldn't tell from your post and lot of people post here with just assumptions) lessens my concern of other issues and it sounds like you are on top of it anyway so thats good.
I'm sorry your mother had to go through it as well.
