Does she have a neurologist? Is she showing signs of dementia?

My mom got a referral from her neurologist for a neuro-psych evaluation and that is how she got diagnosed. It's a pretty comprehensive test that takes 5-6 hours, my mom did it over two days. 

If your MIL doesn't have a neurologist can you talk to her GP about getting a referral for the test?
My mother is in kind of a similar boat. Her husband was able to convince the GP to order the neurologist referral, and to have those cognitive assessments done. She has Medicare with the Kaiser extension (in US) and I don’t believe the assessment cost anything other than the copay. 

I wasn’t present for the assessment, but I gather it was a long series of small tasks and conversations, where she was asked to memorize and recall a series of numbers, draw things from memory, recall some detail from a story, etc. She scored a lot higher than I expected, but the tests didn’t really address the kinds of choices or decisions that we felt were problematic in her case. I suppose doctors are more interested in specific kinds of memory issues (short term memory loss) over value-skewed choices. 

Nevertheless I urge you to do the same, as the test will establish a baseline of her abilities that can be used in the future. If her condition worsens, these tests can be used to spot specific neurological issues, or the rate of changes in her brain. It’s helpful information.
Ask her to draw a clock showing a particular time. Like draw a clock at 11:35. If she has trouble, that can be good leverage to get her to take your concerns seriously.
A mental health assessment (in addition to neurology) seems warranted. The secretive behavior and defensiveness make me wonder what’s happening.
Thank you for your response.

 She doesn't have a neurologist and she moved a year ago and has only see her GP 1x.  She is showing signs of Dementia through her poor decision making and secretative behavior but I don't know if that's enough to become her Guardian.  

What was your mother doing that made you get her assessed?
We believe she is showing signs of Dementia. She is in pretty good physical health aside from her eyesight is going.  She just moved a year ago to live with my BIL.  She has only seen her GP once and my BIL said she was very lucid at that time.

 She is not using very good judgment and that's what concerns us.  Since we told her she couldn't live alone, she can't live with us and she won't live in assisted living, she says she has made plans to live with her old neighbor. The same neighbor that she didn't get along with all the time with she lived there and we get the feeling the neighbor is not all there either.  She is also being very secretive about all her plans and when her daughter asked her to talk to them about her plans she got furious.  My husband called the neighbor and she got furious with him over really nothing and hung up on him.  She kept saying she wasn't doing it for the money.  My MIL is loaded. 

I wonder if a neuro-psych eval would pick up on poor decision making and judgment?  Did you go through this someone?  Thanks for your response, I'm sorry if I had to rant a bit it's all so frustrating.
Yes that is a great idea.  Right now she is just making really bad decisions and we're worried she's going to go thru her entire estate and will have nothing when she needs it.   I'm not sure the assessment would help with that but it's a good idea to have it done for a baseline.
Thanks, I'll see if I can get BIL to get her to do that.
Yes, that is a great idea, I think she may be depressed but would never admit it.
She had a stroke in 2014 and mostly recovered from it. She was doing well and I didn't notice any cognitive impairments when I would visit. At the time she lived long distance from me. 

She began to have some declining health and "balance problems" as she described it to me and told me she was afraid of taking the steps at her place and expressed she wanted to be closer to me. I'd never seen my mom be vulnerable like that so I took it serious and moved her last year. I thought it was general health decline. I did not expect dementia. 

Then when I saw her daily, and got involved with her doctors I felt like I was hit with a truck. Her memory problems were much more severe than I realized and so was her general cognitive functioning. My mom had a long career in IT and can now barely work her iPhone. I needed to find her a neurologist because after the stroke she developed epilepsy from the brain damage and needs to take meds for that. By the time her first appointment rolled around I documented some of the behavior and sent the doctor a note of my concerns. She didn't do well on the MME (short memory screening test) so the neuro-psych eval was ordered. That particular test can not be fooled. It tests many areas of cognitive functioning. It's an objective test and the results depend on the patients answers. An assistant helps them through the test instructions. That's when she was diagnosed with Major Cognitive Decline.... the new fancy word for dementia.

A GP could give your MIL the MME test. Maybe you could suggest a "check up" before she moves or as part of her moving planning and then send the doctor a note to do the MME. It only takes a couple minutes. I think it's about 12 short questions.
The poor decision making stuff? OH YEAH. And my mom IS diagnosed with dementia and believe it or not I could still not stop her from driving even though I attempted to do so through the legal authorities. I'll spare you that hellish ordeal. 

What I did learn from that unless people are deemed incapacitated and you have guardianship or durable POA that can be invoked against their will they still have the right to make bad decisions. For example my mom has dementia, no doubt, I'd say mid stage. But she is not fully incapacitated and I can not invoke anything to literally control her behavior. 

In fact she got VERY defensive and HATED my attempts at control. It sounds like your MIL is resisting people trying to control her life also. 

If she is truly set on moving, is there anyone who could ask to be put on her bank accounts or something to protect her from any scams or financial damage?
Yeah, that's a possibility.  I don't think she has a clear decline with memory, she just is making really bad decisions. But I think it would be a good idea to have her doctor do a MME.  I'll tell my BIL to start keeping notes on her behaviors and then send them along to the doctor with his concerns. Thank you so much.
Wow, that is very scary and sad to know.  My MIL has always been a difficult person and now is even more so but even now I don't think she is incapacitated.  Luckily, she's not driving now but before that, we were terrified that she would kill someone so I can imagine how you're feeling.  My husband is her POA but only for medical but he is on all her accounts so he could move her money to another account to protect it and her.  It sounds like he is going to have to do that.  

Did you have some sort of professional that helped you deal with all of this or did you have to do it all solo?
My mom has always been difficult and strong willed too, so I feel your pain. It's good your husband can protect her from financial scams. It's very possible that she will need that money if she ever needs to go into a facility like memory care.

I haven't had any one professional advising me on everything but I've worked with a bunch concerning my mom. Mainly her doctors, in the case of the driving the POLICE, and for myself I've gone to counseling. I deal with my mom A LOT as I moved her next to me and my husband in our condo building a year ago so I've had to work with HER. Losing independence is a huge deal and sometimes we just have to let them have their charades of independence while attempting to watch over. 

How is your MIL's general health? Can she function independently and take care of her basic needs? If so maybe the move will be a temporary thing and give her a change of scenery and then she'll be back?

EDIT- Your husband can consult with an elder attorney if he wants advice on how to monitor the spending so he will know if anything shady happens.
Oh, I had no idea there was such a thing as an elder attorney.  I'll have him check into it. Thanks!!
My MIL's general health is good but she has Macular Degeneration and Afib which has caused two strokes but none in the last several years.   She can take care of her basic needs and will warm up food to eat if the family is not there.  She did live alone up until last year. She lived a couple of miles from us but was calling my husband constantly to do things for her, primarily because she was lonely.  She thinks that she left all these friends back home but there were only a couple left because the rest have died or are in a nursing home. 

She has the means to move into a nice Assisted Living  Facility and the entire family knows once she settled in she would love it. She is very social and just wants to sit around and chat with people.  

We could move her back home and she could live with us and she would be happy with that but...she doesn't like me at all.  I'm chronically ill and am at home so we would be together constantly.  I don't think we would ever get her to move back to my BILs but maybe she would then go into assisted living. 

My husband just told me that he can move her checking account but not her trust accounts in which she has the bulk of her estate.  

Oh, brother...
No moving in with you and your husband would be a bad idea. I moved my mom next door to maintain our privacy and get away when I need to, she too can still do basic things.

Yeah the loneliness is a real issue. It’s likely what’s driving your MIL to move. It’s such a shame when people have the money for great senior living and don’t do it. I had an aunt through marriage that had a lot of money. She moved into the most incredible assisted living I couldn’t believe how nice it was, the room’s were mini apartments, nice and large. Activities galore. Exercise, hair salon, doctors, etc all on site. The dining hall was like a five star restaurant fully staffed. We had dinner there and rack of lamb was on the buffet! I was like I want to move here! She loved it. Granted it was quite expensive, but she had the money, it was very nice for her.

Maybe your MIL needs to tour a really upscale place because they do exist, plus it’s so accommodating for visitors. She could still live independently with help around if needed. IIRC my aunt’s apartment had a built in life alert system.

I know a lot of seniors refuse this even if they have the means which is a shame.

Good luck, if you ever need to chat or vent feel free to DM me.
I don't get it.  If I had the means now I would move in to one in a heartbeat. But thanks for all the information, it helps a bit to know you not alone in it all. Thanks too for the personal vent session, I may take you up on it.
