Some days it will be helpful to him and he will remember you.  Other days, unfortunately, he won’t.    I think pictures WITH him are a good thing so he can see himself with you/other person and trust you during a visit he may or may not recognize you.    My grandpa would not recognize me during a visit and 20 minutes later it would click.  Or he would immediately recognize me and talk with me and then ask me who I am an hour later.  I found choosing older pictures and older memories to talk about were best.  My grandpa remembered his first car ever (70 years ago) but couldn’t remember what he ate for lunch.   Just try your best to not let it hurt your feelings or get frustrated with him.   It’s tough....   Best wishes to you.
The best thing is it will give you something to talk about. Especially as they become nonverbal, it is so hard to have one way conversations and they can feel your unease and awkwardness. 

Remember that when they no longer know your name, they still remembers you as a “safe” or friendly person. My dad has not recognized me for the past 3 years but he smiles or at least acknowledges me with his eyes when I enter the room. He tries to make words even though he has been nonverbal for at least 2 years. He does not know my name and can not identify how he knows me but he knows me a a good person to him. Luckily, as adults we stay looking about the same. My dad is fearful of my teenage son - because he is huge and unfamiliar. He is a gentle giant but to my dad he is a stranger. 

As your dad becomes nonverbal- bring in things they can hold to help with focus and creating a conversation. I found that taking my dad for a drive made words flow out of him. I wasn’t sure if it was just “being out” or the fear of my wild driving, but it worked every time for about a year then he just couldn’t make words no matter what. He also loved it when I played his favorite oldies tunes. It seemed to energize something inside of him. And I always brought him a treat. He would not remember what he was waiting for but when I would bring the treat out near the end of our visit, he would say something like “oh yes, this is what was missing “

Also, I mix up what I am saying to my dad. Every once in a while I toss in a joke and he laughs. So they may be understanding more than they can show???
Sometimes it may help and sometimes not. Pictures from recently or the past can be used as useful conversation tools and may trigger some old memories which will be a nice reminiscence moment for them. Your father might not recognise your mom some days now but may be familiar with how she looked in the past, and you can use these photos to tap into that. Remember that just because they don’t recognise you, it doesn’t necessarily mean they’re forgotten you altogether. I’d say give the photos a try!
