I have my husband a shower last night. What a production that is. I aim for 2 times a week because of the amount of work it is. I was exhausted afterwards.
It really depends on a lot of factors.


In all LTC facilities that I have consulted in (I do case management/consulting for residents in LTC who have responsive behaviours due to dementia, brain injury, mental health issues etc.) its been 2x weekly for most patients.  A few more active, able-bodied residents have asked for more showers, and are generally allowed to as staffing allows.  Bear in mind that "personal care" is being completed (or is supposed to be) daily, so its not exactly like 2 showers a week is all the cleaning they get. 
 

I really think you need to assess the comfort of your male family members who are doing the showering.  Can the homecare nurses help?  Is there an alternative?  Can you get shower wipes to use between showers, and would your father be agreeable to using them?  Even just to wipe armpits/genitals?  Is there anything that can be done to make the bathing experience more enjoyable for him so that it is less of a fight and unpleasant time?  For several of my residents I got the MD to "prescribe" hydrotherapy- basically a soak in the tub.   We sold it as a way to relieve aching knees/hips/help arthritis, but it got those residents in the tub so it was a win.
When MIL still living with us, we give her full shower once a week usually on Fridays. Daily body wipes with damp warm towels (diluted Dr. Bronners unscented baby and follow up with clean water). Daily private parts cleaning. We cut MIL hair short and use clarifying shampoo once a week.

Not sure if this apply to your LO. My MIL has bvFTD and are extremely violent and displaying extremely inappropriate sexual behaviors. Full shower usually require 2 strong male home nurse and my husband to be accomplished every Fridays prior to her permanent institutionalization into badge-only high security state mental hospital.

The sound of shower and water splashing triggered her sexual arousal and she tried to sexually assault one of the home care male nurse and sometime my husband. We tried to switch to female home care nurse for showers and she gave her blackeye, broken nose and bald patch from hair being yanked. The female home care aid resigned after.

She will only let males wipe her body and clean her genitals daily. If it’s female, she will get aggressive and usually snarls and tries to choke any females trying to help her undress. We made the mistake in hiring female home care aid again thinking it’s only wiping instead of full showers. MIL proceed to bash the nurse’s head into the countertop. The nurse had major stroke and left permanently paralyzed from the head trauma my MIL inflicted on her. It’s one of the main reason for the APS to commit MIL permanently to high security state mental hospital.

Since your LO did not demonstrate the level of extreme aggression of my MIL, daily body wipes and thorough genital cleaning (to prevent UTI) with weekly full showers should be fine. 

Good luck! 😊
My mother has to get a shower daily. She doesn't clean herself properly when using the toilet so if she were to go a day without showering the smell of feces and urine would be gag worthy. Twice a week honestly sounds terrible, every other day like you and your mother agree on seems like the minimum to me
My mom helps my grandmother shower about every other day, and helps her with dressing/grooming as needed (she has limited mobility in her shoulders from arthritis). Thankfully she hasn’t had many accidents, just a little bit of urinary incontinence due to UTIs that her GP monitors frequently now. She uses wipes, thank god, and stays indoors so she generally doesn’t get sweaty/smelly. We expect it will get worse, and she’s not an easy person to deal with. She refuses to sit on the shower chair we got her, even though she is exhausted at the end of her showers from lack of oxygen. I think the advice to make the best of what’s available, whether that’s 2 or 5 per week, is realistic. Hopefully he can tolerate shower wipes in between to help with the sweat.
1-2x a week is fine if they are cleaning daily with a washcloth
My mother refuses to get in the shower.  It’s a battle we have weekly.  She thinks she took a shower yesterday even though it’s been a week.  Any ideas on how to persuade her to shower.   I’ve tried to be forceful and that made her more anxious and aggressive.   I would appreciate some input from people in a similar situation.   Thanks so much!
It is hard my grandfather hates the water on his body he treats it like acid. I really hate it for him.
That...escalated. Geez I’m sorry you went through that. You went way above and beyond. This shit is hard.
Luckly he rarely has accidents so thats not a problem weve come across ( yet). The problem is my mother and i dont feel comfortable bathing him so we cant do it ourselves and have to rely on male family members and health care workers.
Right. The water is too hot, too cold, hurts his legs. Ugh. Poor guy.
If he hates showering and his health providers say twice a week is plenty, why are you pushing for more? You say you'd hate to only shower that often, but you're not in his position.
It sounds like that is the number of showers that they feel willing to give each week rather than what's best. I'm going to assume each of them shower daily themselves. Would it be possible to rotate the showers between nurses and male family members? As in: let the nurses shower him twice a week and let your brother and father shower him three times a week. Coordinate between them who does what day of the week. That way he would get a shower 5 days out of 7. 

If they are not willing to budge then sadly you have to accept the situation or face your own discomfort. I help my mother shower every day and it's super uncomfortable for me (i'm her son). However it's only 10 minutes a day, literally nobody else is willing to help and the improved hygiene is worth it.
Because he smells bad.
