My dad's hospice group supplied his memory care facility with a Hoyer Lift to help get him out of his bed as well as a hospital-style adjustable bed.  If your dad isn't in hospice yet, ask his physician for a referral.  Hospice is a wonderful help both to the patient and the family.
Is Dad at an assisted living or a skilled nursing facility??
Sounds like he may need a hospital bed so they can safely get him sitting up to eat. If he is physically resisting, using a lift may not be safe, but an evaluation by physical therapy could potentially help determine that.
Is hospice not just for end of life care? I am taking him to see his doctor on Monday and can speak to her about that then.  Thank you for your insight - I really appreciate it.
Not sure the difference? It is a memory care only facility. All the staff must be RNA qualified.
They have a pre-hospice care stage now called Palliative Care. My Dad is still at home, and we have a nurse that comes in once a week to check his vital signs, another that comes in 3 times a week to give him a shower, and there is also a Social Worker to answer questions, a Chaplain who likes to drop by about once a month, a veteran's liaison who can help with veterans related stuff, etc. There are a lot of other things they do as well that we havent needed yet. It's all covered by Medicare. Check with the Hospice care people, they are probably offering this service.
Both of my in-laws were on hospice. I guess there are criteria your dad would have to meet in order to qualify. But people go on and off of it if their condition improves, and it can last for a long time. I think my MIL was on it for nearly a year. We were so thankful for the support hospice provided.
If there is a social worker at your facility then ask if he/she can help! A hospital bed would be covered under Dads insurance with his diagnosis of Alzheimers. Dads primary doctor can write a script or social worker can assist. Lordica is right-- hospice is not just for end of life care and is often a valuable resource for families during this difficult time. They too can help you order a hospice bed and medicare will cover!
Thank you thank you! So helpful and appreciated.
