Is the surgery necessary?  Surgery is so hard on dementia patients and doctors can often over-treat; seeing only the condition and not the human.
Have a serious talk with the doctor and PAs - explain how the behavior post-op has been and that he needs some meds to help keep calm in the hospital - probably something to help sleep overnight, anti-anxiety meds for pulling out IV and trying to leave. If he's like my father he may not report being in any pain - that can be expressed in different ways like being cranky or mean to the nurses so they should be more aware. These are things the doctor needs to order right after the surgery, if not there can be a delay getting the prescription from the doctor.  
If there are other caregivers or family who see him regularly it might be good to try to set up a schedule so he's not alone for very long.
Just make sure the Doctors , especially the anesthesiologist know about the dementia condition and to be prepared for a slow and difficult recovery.  There tends to be a lot of incoherent behavior after surgery, so just try your best to adapt to the situation. Yes by all means bring keepsakes and other comforting objects.
Music from his teens!
If he keeps pulling out his IV, the nurses will move him to a room next to the nurse's station. Best have him assigned that room beforehand, so he won't need to be moved. (Ma had surgery last week.) Also, since she loves watching TV, she was more calm with the TV on 24/7. 

If he's going to wander, don't bring his slippers.
I wish I could help but I’m in the same boat. Mom’s going in for hip replacement soon. She’s rapidly transitioning to early mid stage and believes she will be up walking unassisted in a day. I’m so terrified of this surgery. It’s been making me a ball of nerves for months and I’m not normally like that. Good luck to you!
Something to cuddle might soothe him - a stuffed bear, or dog?
His blanket from his bed would be wonderful
Yes, he's got advanced cancer and his kidneys are failing. We went over options with him to do nothing (he would only live for a few months if nature took its course) and he chose to go ahead.
Yes, for sure, I'll discuss with everyone. During the last time, he was already so agitated that 2 doses of Haldol did very little. This time we'll try to get ahead of it and try something else like Ativan. 

I've got sisters and a cousin who will  be available, we're going to rotate to stay with him. It's the overnights that will be tricky that worry me.
I will for sure. We've been talking about the surgery for a few weeks, so this is information that with  repetition he's had time to absorb and process. He knows it'll be difficult, and I also hope he's processed that it's just a temporary thing and he will feel much better afterwards. 

I'm  having him choose some books to bring with him. And his favorite slippers. Involving him in it has definitely helped.
That's actually a great idea! I can set up an ipod with a speaker and stream some Pandora of the music he likes. Thanks!
I'll mention that about the room, good idea.

As for the slippers, I was mostly thinking about them because he has a thing about being barefoot (or just socks), he has always worn slippers indoors. He hated being in just the hospital-issue socks to walk around. I was trying to avoid another anxiety point. Same thing with the underwear, he hated hated hated being forced to be naked under the gown, it just added to his irritation.

I can always hide the slippers in the closet until he's able and allowed to walk.

Thanks!
I'm sorry! I will post an update in a few days about how he's doing and what's helped or not. 

I'm kind of hoping that if there is pain, it'll help him realize that he's got to take it easy. Hopefully that'll be the same for your mom. 

Good luck. Keep us posted!
Yes, that's an idea. He gets fidgety and picks at his gown and IV, so that's something to think about. Thanks!
Interesting! I can do that. Thanks!
I got conflicting info about getting a "sitter" at the hospital - some people said the doctor had to order that, others said it would be arranged post-op, others said I had to arrange it (hire someone) myself... In the end, the nursing staff had someone who could do that but only because they weren't busy.
Honestly I hate the idea of asking one of the nurses to sit with him. They're so busy, I would feel guilty asking one to sit watching my dad for hours on end to make sure he doesn't get out of bed!
Know your limits, don't feel guilty. The hospital staff will figure out what to do, you cannot take on their responsibilities in terms of behavior management. The staff may act like they expect you to be there 24x7 but that is *their* responsibility. You will lose your sanity.
Yes, you are absolutely right. It's just hard because, well, guilt and also because sometimes I feel like I'm the only one who can understand my dad, I speak his language, know his likes and dislikes, etc. But yes, you're right.
