Are you sure it was a suicide attempt? And not just a person with dementia not  kowing what they're doing, and accidentally taking the pills? 

I think legally if a person has dementia , they may not be of sound mind to make any decisions good or bad, this is why you need a POA (power of attorney) to handle their affairs. Im highly doubtful any jurisdiction would attempt to bring any charges in this case.

As for your father I think you need to get a POA and take steps to handle the medication differently.

Sadly there's no easy answers here, this is why these neurological diseases are so devastating because the person you love is not just sick but behaving in ways that are dangerous to them and potentially others.
No your dad will be fine, it really is just protocol in a situation like this. Unfortunately all angles have to be investigated.

Can I ask if it is vascular dementia your mum has? If so this is an horrific but common symptom ( especially after a stroke). Antidepressants will be prescribed and I absolutely implore you to make sure she takes them regularly.

I'm so sorry you and especially your poor dad are going through this. I assure you that everyone will be aware your dad did not do this but they have to (by law) make sure she wasn't harmed intentionally.

Much love to you all.
I'm sorry for your situation. For everyone's peace of mind, you may want to recommend that your father go through the entire house to look for additional pills. My grandma used to hide them everywhere. I had to go through everything (inside her old purses, shoes, buried in underwear drawer, under the couch cushions, etc.) 3 times to find them all. She would even hide pills in unmarked bottles, containers, plastic boxes, so maybe encourage him to literally open everything to look for pills.  

Since my grandma took so many medications for so many years, it was very unsettling for her not to have her pills. Plus she didn't feel great on a daily basis and was convinced taking more pills would fix it rather than being able to accept that she had dementia plus a host of other health issues that were ending her life. I had to store all medications in the house where she couldn't reach them.

My grandma was overmedicated for decades. Towards the end of her life, she was taking life saving medications even though she didn't want any life saving procedures. She had a lot of side effects from them, too. The doctors recommended that she just stop taking them, but she would have side effects from quitting the medications so quickly since she took them for so long. (One example was Omeprazole, which shouldn't be taken for more than 2 months due to the side effects and she was on it for 50 years! Every time she tried to stop, her stomach hurt.) I was able to taper her off of these medicines by addressing each one at a time and then giving her a slightly lower dose each week (even if it meant I had to open the capsules and pour out a little bit more each week). (Note I did this with the guidance of her home hospice doctors and nurses, so it was under medical supervision.) It took a few months to get her off of all of the unnecessary pills, but she didn't experience the horrible side effects from quitting medications (especially those that act on the brain) suddenly. I wish you and your family the best.
I am very sorry this happened to you. 

Yes I agree that the power of an attorney will help you and your dad figure out the best solution for handling your mom's medication. Your mom is suffering from mental decline and I believe she knows it and very much likely doesn't want to suffer anymore. I also suggest reaching out to doctors who know a lot about dementia and ask them what can you and your family do for your mom's medicine. Have both the attorney and doctor discuss the next steps. 

I do agree that there are no easy answers on here, but the next step is to figure out how to prevent something like this from happening again. All the best for you!
100% sure. She had hidden the pills and threatened several times. She opened many capsules and dissolved in water so she could swallow them all.

We have been trying to get a nurse in to manage her regular meds and she is super hostile/resistant to the idea. She wants to control/manage everything. 

Dad has POA but they will not even tell him where she is right now. She may be at the local psyc hospital since it was a suicide attempt but will not disclose that information to him. I believe there are some pretty strict suicide protocols.
Frontal Lobe Dementia. She has been on Xanax for years and has to come off before she can start antidepressants. IMO she has been hugely over medicated for years.
