This is very common with caregivers.  We merge with the loved one's illness, become invisible to outsiders and occasionally get the "thoughts and prayers" line.

First, I do recommend a Caregiver Support group; a real one not an online thing.  They are for family and friends.  There you will find others in your situation and find out what resources are available.  They usually meet once a month.

Second, you may have to "force" others to get involved.  Sorry, not sorry.  You may have to ask them to forgo "thoughts and prayers" and come over for a few hours and take over, shop or mow the lawn.   You can't do it all.  Also pass on keeping people "updated".  This gets tiresome.

Third, I recommend reading [Cruising Through Caregiving](https://www.amazon.com/Cruising-through-Caregiving-Reducing-Stress-ebook/dp/B01L9KW4T4/ref=sr_1_1?crid=1GAIGEOVFTKKV&keywords=cruising+through+caregiving&qid=1571254184&sprefix=cruising+through%2Caps%2C201&sr=8-1).
Are you and your husband able to at least rotate and take turns to go to a support group for caregivers to see how others cope and chat it up with those who know what you are now realizing is the singular life of a caregiver? 

I'm lucky in that mom is in a condition (most of the time) that I can take her out (although now, in a wheelchair). I look forward to seeing different seasonal flowers in public gardens, different exhibits in museums and art galleries, the occasional music performances, movies, etc., in the company of mom. 

I even used to take mom to class with me to ramp up my skills in another language for my part-time job, and two fellow students didn't mind my taking mom with me when we needed to meet to collaborate on special school projects (singing or performing skits in front of the class using only the target language). Mom can be real sweet so they adored pampering her. 

I've even tried different restaurants based on yelp ratings with mom. 

I am lucky that despite having her own life, my sister willingly steps up to the plate (she made arrangements with her job) when I go to work (3 days/week, 3 hours/day, plus some commute time). My job, luckily, is very accommodating as well, allowing me to cut down and be flexible with my hours, even allowing mom to stay with me in the office (or even stay home, sometimes working from home), the occasional times sis couldn't leave her work.

My husband helps out when he can (doing all the grocery shopping and the occasional times when mom was not doing so well and needed more help with transfers). In the lulls when mom is asleep, I work on a podcast that helps me with my job (it helps me practice the languages I need to use to talk with clients at work), or stream videos, usually in bed. This all helps me keep sane.

Aside from my sister helping out (her husband is equally understanding about the needs of mom and has helped out with installing extra bannisters in house, yard work, etc.), mom and I are fine getting on, on our own. In other words, my life pretty much revolves around mom. Luckily, mom has become my BFF--she's really the only friend and family I need or want to hang around with at this time (despite her advanced dementia occasionally bringing out a dark side of her).

What you and your husband are doing is a wonderful thing but it shouldn't break your spirit. 

If your mom (or grandma?) is not very mobile, you might see if her insurance covers respite care (contact her insurance--if you have POA it's okay for you to talk to them directly; if not she might need to be on the phone with you), or if she's medically classified as eligible for hospice care in the home (her primary care can help with that), that will also provide respite for you and your husband. Some day care centers provide transportation to and from their facility.

All the best.
Lots of great advice here, urown, I'll add another resource that hasn't been mentioned... are there any Dementia Cafe's in your area? If so, head to one and meet other caregivers and dementia folks rolling the same rough road as you and your husband. Also, check with your local community/senior center for day respite center options. Isolation is the deathknell to providing good care - ugh. Dementia Cafes, day respite centers, anything where you and your grandma can get some socialization (and hopefully a break from each other) will be a life line.
The worst part, for me anyway, is that, when they do pop up, they want to know how she’s (my mom) is doing. I know it’s well intended, but I don’t feel like talking about what I live 24/7 during the one time I’m out. It doesn’t provide relief, just reminds me how much the current situation sucks. And then you’re not fun to be around anymore...

I hope you get the support you need
Yes, the updates are draining my husband. My uncle lives nearby, my mom lives on the other side of the country. They are trying to coordinate care plans but won't speak to each other and it's turned into my husband being their go-between. It's awful and sucks up so much of his time. Meanwhile, he's also doing all of the daily care while we wait for them to figure out what they're going to do. We don't have much bargaining room because we would be homeless if we tried to leave, but we have put our foot down about some things lately and are fully prepared to live in our car if they don't follow through.
We're still struggling to get a diagnosis, she has dementia, maybe next week we'll finally get there. Not having a diagnosis means we don't have any resources at our disposal, my grandmother also doesn't want to be cared for so I don't know how we could bring a stranger into the house. We're hoping that by early next year she will be moving across the country to live with my mother, but it's hard to hold my family at their word because they sometimes back out. We don't currently have time to go to support groups because they're held during work hours, I am in therapy though. My husband does most of the caretaking while I'm at work, but he struggles to balance the load with his job search. We're trapped in this situation until he can find work but he can't find work while he's the primary caregiver. It's truly awful. We're in a high cost of living area, far from resources, and feel utterly alone.
I agree.  Too many of our elderly are plopped down in front of the TV all day long.  I see this all the time.  Adult day care/Senior Centers is one solution.  Even if you can get them outside for a 10 minute walk, that will do wonders for them.
don't know your ages but are there any groups for younger people that are caregivers? i've tried in our local area and they are all seniors. I don't mind but sometimes i wish i was around other people my age (<50).
I'm trying to get my mind to accept that I won't get support and to figure out how to cope without it. I'm fortunate that my husband is in this with me, but we're both really struggling and we have to be careful to take turns to hold each other up. We're also financially trapped in this situation because we can't afford to move out until my husband finds a job, but caretaking takes up so much time that he can't look for work. My family has finally started tossing him some money, but it's been like pulling teeth to get them to follow through with promises they've made. Things are getting bad enough that my mom might finally be motivated to move grandma in with her or find a dementia care unit, but that's still 4-6 months away and we're totally depleted. Our recovery is going to take a long time, we've compartmentalized so much that I know we haven't even begun to deal with the trauma and pain we've avoided coping with. My family doesn't do emotional support, my friends are absent, support groups are geared towards retired boomers who can make meetings during work hours. We're in our early 30s and have put our life on hold completely. We can't have a kid, we've lost so much income, it's just an awful situation. My family didn't step up to start moving forward with long term care plans until we threatened to move out--which would have meant living in our car or on the streets. But being homeless sounds a lot better than what we're going through now.
If you haven't already done, give Social Services a call and see if Grandma qualifies for either placement or "In-Home Support Services".

And put your foot down on the Nightly News about Grandma.  This is something you will hear in Caregiver Support classes.  This is needless aggravation.
I hope grandma has a good primary care physician that you can talk to about everything you've written about. S/he should be able to hook you up with a social worker who can help with finding resources based on whatever information you have about grandma currently, and get more, when a diagnosis is available. 

Is your husband able to do his kind of work at home? In our world of high tech, some kinds of jobs can be done at home. Or does grandma have the kind of insurance that her caregiver can get paid for the caregiving provided, after an evaluation is done to show she qualifies for such a program? Then, he might hold off on the job search till after mom takes over.

Any good social worker worth his/her salt will know all about these sorts of things.

If for some reason, you are unable to get hooked up with a social worker, your husband will have to do the research online and call the various agencies to see if grandma and y'all quality. 

If grandma is mobile, I suggest your husband take the time to get out of the house to go to fun places with her. When your mom is able to see pictures/videos of grandma in a good space, and having the dependency she prefers, mom may be more apt to go through with taking on the care of grandma, letting you and your husband take back your lives once again.

Is your therapy the kind that gives you tools to deal with the situation? (As opposed to just trying to unlock your past and see how it impacts your present.) If not, you might want to research and find that type of therapist (who provides tools and gives you homework) for the purposes of getting you through this stage, sanity intact, before your mom takes over. You can explain this to your current therapist as a temporary solution to the situation at hand, if you like your current therapist and s/he is not that kind of "hands-on" therapist.

Take good care of yourself.
I'm not young, esp, but I am always a good 20 years younger than the others at support groups I've attended too. I have heard the same lament from others my age and younger. It's just a different situation for children then spouses and it would be nice to be among those who are having similar problems. 

I'd suggest looking online for an FB page or group that is geared towards your caregiving age group.
It’s ridiculous how people think that we do “nothing” and that even being a caregiver to an “easy” person doesn’t suck the life out of you. I get all that you’re feeling right now. 

Personal, long, rant incoming:

I’m the only child of a (likely) narcissistic mother with muscular dystrophy who has alienated all of her other family and friends. It’s my life. I have no job, almost nothing left of what resembles myself. She lost her dependency some five years ago, and I lost my independent life around that time.   

We are lucky enough that she has a nice pension that can support me as well, which is also my downfall. She picks on everyone that comes to help and tries to pit them against each other. She says I’m perfect and her priority, but she badmouths me and sabotages my attempts at working and having a life just the same. 

After starting therapy, I thought she was improving, but then I found a MAJOR financial fuck up that she did knowingly but was hoping I wasn’t going to find out (loaned an unacceptable amount of money to a “friend”, which she couldn’t afford) and was just praying that God was going to bring her good fortune, out of the kindness of her heart. I renegotiated the debt and saved her pension, but she still paints me as the bad guy to others. I’m ridiculously afraid that she’s going to leave me a lot debts when she passes. 

Caring for her made me a lot more patient and tolerant (I’m a physics/math tutor for high school kids, I thought I was tolerant enough already) but it’s also making me disappear. 

The operational part (bathing, feeding, changing diapers) is not even that bad, she didn’t choose this to happen to her. I didn’t choose this either. But getting to know (or realize) this part of her personality really broke me.
