You have every right to be upset, but life happens and death does too. Don't be too hard on yourself, some things are just out of our control. I'm very sorry for your loss
[deleted]
I can’t believe this. This literally just happened to me today. Almost identical circumstances. It’s a weird world.
Well nothing you can do about it now so let it go.
I almost missed my grandmother last moments, I just took a decision to visit at the hospital part minute.. she looked terrible. She was hospitalised for some time, was alone and miserable and with an oxygen tube. I was crying and she was trying to talk I am telling you it was horrible. My other granny died a lot earlier by full blown alshheimer. I regret not seeing her but I had spend time with her. I never went to funerals and I don't regret. The time I spent with them is what makes me think of them daily. Please do some activity you both enjoyed and try to feel her close. You already have too much to do, do not blame yourself. Have your grief and focus on how much she loves you and you love her. What you're going through is totally understandable.
Debatable on if you should. Did she make it a point to come see you and be involved in your life when she was able? My grandmother is dying but she was never around I haven't spoke to her in several years even when I do see her, mainly because she doesn't know who I am and because she didn't try to come around when she was able, we always went there they were close and able to drive.So would I feel guilty about not being there in the end?  Not one bit.
Thank you for that
♡
If this is my sister I'm going to scream.
Also I sorry for your loss.
I'm trying.
Thank you.
Yes she was the sweetest lady and was always there. She stooped driving a long time ago and I used to see her a lot more before I had a kid and started caring for my other grandmother. I let life get in the way of putting minimum effort into a person I think the world of and I just don't understand how I let that that happen. It feels like I have no right being as devastated as I am when I didn't try harder when I could. Yuck.
So sorry for your loss though and hope you come to peace with your loss.
