Maybe you could call an optometrist's office and ask them what they would suggest? Maybe there's different tests they can use as they would for a young child such as a toddler who can't answer the typical questions.
If you cant find a copy of the prescription then I think they can get a pretty good fit without any response.  Last few times I when for an exam the machine dialed in my prescription pretty well and the rest of the exam was just tweaking it a bit from there.  

&#x200B;

If the prescription is over 2 years old they usually wont fill it (this may be state dependent) which pisses me off because the state is telling me I am not allowed to buy curved glass.  I lost my glasses once and had to get an exam before I could get a replacement pair just to have them tell me what I already knew that my prescription was the same.
There is a way, and it's with NEW technology.  The muscles of the eye can be recorded flexing to focus, so machines will dial in a prescription automatically just by looking at how the eye focuses and adjusting to that.  You will need to call around to different offices to find one that has this equipment.  I don't even know the name of it. 

All the eye exams AFTER that part "1 or 2?  Now, 1 or 2?" are either to test the health of the eye or to help your eye muscles relax and then re-take your prescription, so they're not focusing so hard with a too-straining prescription.  Those can be worked around: the machine mentioned above will help get a good estimate of what his rX should be.
Heh this reminds me of the time my mom lost her glasses we looked everywhere they were missing for almost a week then one day I'm in here room changing her bedding and I flip her big comforter outta and it makes an odd think sound so I start investigating and find tear in the comforter and down in the comforter is her glasses

Edit: also you should try to contact the optometrist that he got his glasses from last they may be able to just get you another pair and I would suggest if you can getting him a couple of extra pairs of frames because from experience they will get torn to hell and need replaced more than the lenses most likely
I did call the optometry department and they told me to bring her in, and the optometrist  was able to do an exam.  Most have dealt with this before. She was able to get a new prescription; I always take the prescription to Walmart and get the cheapest glasses I can and they keep it for two years. In case she loses them again what she has. Good luck to you.
Legally they can't dispense glasses with an expired prescription. (Husband is an eye care specialist, dad has Alzheimer's). But there are great eye doctors that can probably get him close enough to something that would work for him. 

Shoot, I took a friend's two little boys to the eye doctor. Both with autism. One of the boys couldn't really communicate what worked but the doc figured it out. 

Just find an eye doctor and give them a call. Most receptionist will let you know if their doc could handle that.
Call the office where he had his last eye exam. They would have his prescription on file and could make him another pair.
There are a lot of reasons that curved plastic requires a prescription, even though it's annoying. For most adults, the state needs to know that you have the right curved glass in front of your eyes to keep other drivers and passengers safe on the road. Many people think they can see just fine when they can't, and this can lead to accidents. I, for one, am glad that proper curved plastic is a requirement to keep your driver's license. For children, the state intervenes to ensure that children are receiving the appropriate curved glass so that they fall and get injured less and can see in school so they can learn.
My post specifically states that’s not possible.  I’m wondering if there are other solutions...?
This is what I did when my wife lost her glasses. They were very accommodating and gave me all the specs to order some online. I found the glasses and now have 4 pairs.
If they went through insurance for the "years ago, optometrist forgotten" exam, you might be able to find the original optometrist from insurance records...

Vision insurance is more the exception than the rule, but thought I'd mention the idea just in case.
Sorry about that. Maybe you could call all the eye doctors in the town where he lived when he had eyes checked last. ?
