Not sure about housing options, but I would strongly recommend getting him evaluated by a physician for the mood swings if he's getting himself kicked out of housing programs for that - if he's done it before he'll likely do it again.

They'll be able to assess if he has a reversible cause of dementia (this is rare, but it happens) or if he's a big drinker he might have a thiamine deficiency, etc. Even if it is a non-reversible cause of dementia, there are some medications that can help his mood swings and paranoia so he's not in distress all the time (and this would have the added benefit of him not getting kicked out of ALF's).
He needs to go into a memory care unit. They have ways of handling patients who are unruly. Unfortunately, it’s a side effect of dementia. Standard longterm care is not equipped to handle patients with memory problems.

Read these articles below:

https://www.elderoptionsoftexas.com/article-what-is-memory-care.htm

https://www.elderoptionsoftexas.com/texas-alzheimers-disease-statistics.htm

Please call the Alzheimer’s Association, they’ll help guide you. 

800-272-3900
I may be mistaken, but I thought your dad’s income is below the Medicaid maximum requirement for your state. Has he ever applied for benefits? I would also check with your state’s Department of Health and Human Services. They should be able to provide  you with a lot of resources. It would be good to get an official dementia diagnosis, so that when he does get placed, they know how to meet his needs based on his diagnosis. Good luck to you, and hang in there.  Your dad is lucky to have you.
Are the rules different in other states? He can't pass an income test for Medicare?

Someone needs to get him to a doctor to get something on paper.
Ok, if you can get your father diagnosed. You then should find a memory care facility that has a Medicaid bed available.  That facility will help your father get Medicaid, and believe me, they cut through the red tape, and get it accomplished in no time, because they want the money. His Social Security will still keep coming, but it will go to the facility instead, to pay for his care.  He gets to keep a small amount in an account, like $35 a month, for haircuts, goodies, etc.  Medicaid pays the remainder of the monthly bill.
I don’t have any new ideas, I’m just so sorry you’re going through this.
Definitely needs an assessment/evaluation, and then likely needs to be medicated.
Best of luck to you.
\*NOT LEGAL ADVICE\* The information you were given was incorrect. The income limit in Texas is $2313. Even that isn't a bar to obtaining assistance from Medicaid. 

Please call your county guardianship program. If there isn't one, call Adult Protective Services and they will help out if he is incapacitated.
Are you obligated to move to Texas? If not, I would try to relocate him to a state where social service programs are more compassionate toward those in need. I am not aware of what social service programs are like in Texas, but I know that in NY we have a program for special Medicaid that is specifically for people like your father, where he is in need of residential care. The eligibility is more flexible for this specific kind of Medicaid. I would contact his local social services office and inquire if they have any special programs that he could apply for, for his special circumstances and need for residential treatment, but him being in dire need and just outside of the eligibility requirements regarding income. There is also United Way
 https://www.unitedway.org/local/united-states/texas which can be helpful with connecting you to programs to help your father get set up in a more stable situation. Good luck and I hope everything works out.
happy cake day!!!!!!!!!
Im in texas. He gets Medicare but Medicare dosnt pay for any longtime housing. Only Medicaid which he disnt qualify for
I have no idea how to relocate him without me going with him. Like I said I'm moving out to Korea in a year
[deleted]
I’m sorry, it’s late. I read that as you were moving from Korea in a year, instead of the other way around. My apologies. 

Check out this article: 

https://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/when-medicaid-texas-will-pay-nursing-home-assisted-living-home-health-care.html
Medicaid has a clinical requirement too.  If he doesn't meet the clinical requirement, he doesn't qualify.  If he can get himself out of bed and feed himself and several other things, he won't qualify.
