It sounds like you’re already doing everything you can. My only advise is to put up your own umbrella. You’re doing loads to help your mum, but remember that you are important too, and a time will come that you need to be ready for the storm. 

I’m a carer for a younger person with dementia too. I’m 30, and my mum is 57. You’re going to face a lot of stigma from the carer community in general because of your age, but stand strong and be heard. I’m often batted off by carers support as too young. 

Funny thing is, I work for a dementia charity myself, and it only deepens my passion in my role. 

Look out for yourself as well as your mum. Build a good support network that’s YOURS - not just your family’s, and make as many happy memories as you can. Best of luck c
You could also get involved in clinical trials or at least look em up once in awhile to see where researchers are headed. Clinicaltrials.gov or google trialmatch from Alzheimer's association. 

Plus you know about the biogen fda thing in the news right? Maybe stay on top of that.

I would also get involved with orgs like Alzheimer's Association or similar.
Support groups can be nice.. Education can be nice.. But they are also involved in pushing legislation that can be helpful and you may find to be directly beneficial. 

Check this out.. Its specifically for younger onset. Normally because of age cutoffs early onset people are not eligible for certain medical cost reduction benefits, but they are trying to change it. 

https://alzimpact.org/priorities/younger_onset_alzheimers_act

Politicians in general are woefully uneducated in any number of issues, including Alzheimer's stuff. And citizens take it for granted that they must know everything because they are our leaders right? Nah man, it helps to get involved, otherwise it wont look like their constituents care enough about it for it to be a priority.

One of the worst things about this is feeling helpless to do anything.
 You are already doing a lot. But if you want more, those are things you could look into. 

Dont burn yourself out tho! Take care, good luck.
Let's see, 8 years out of your preteens and minoring in something. You are a young college student, yes? Do you live at home? Does your dad live with your mom?

One of the best things you can do right now while your mom is still so functional is talk to her. Build the memories. Take pictures and video. Get video of her talking, singing if she likes to sing, doing the things she likes to do and that are important to her. Get video, or her handwriting, of family recipes and traditions and stories she wants preserved. Ask her those questions you've always wanted to ask. Ask her things you might want to know about marriage and kids while you have the opportunity, she may not be able to answer them when you're older and ready for those things. Ask her about career stuff. As hard as it is, talk to her about her wishes as her condition deteriorates. Does she have a living will?  


Does your school offer counseling? It might not be a bad idea to go. You may not have access as easily after you graduate and it's a good place to build those healthy coping skills.
Thats fricken lame af that carers could be dismissed or their stress minimized because of their age. In my area, the support groups are usually attended by spouse caregivers rather than children-of caregivers.

The alz association was able to point out one group that unofficially had a younger demographic of people caring for their parents but it was far from me so i never went. 

Anyway in case it helps, it might be worth it to ask around if a group near you has participants that match your needs. Maybe they donr know. But maybe they do?
