What's her reaction if he says something like "I'm your son"?

You're right, it's not ideal to correct someone with dementia. If it were me and it's just a simple case of thinking your husband is her husband, I'd just go with it. Don't necessarily play along, but you know, don't say "your wrong".

If she does begin to get inappropriate he just has to try his best to redirect her train of thought. 

I wonder if there's something in particular about how your husband looks that's particularly setting her off. Something to think about.
My grandfather (mother's father) thought my grandmother was running around with my father. Not much you can do but don't disagree with her. 

Some states offer programs to have caregivers give you a break. My mother had her mind but  we moved her into our house where my wife could help her clean up, dress and such that I or my single brothers could not do. She found a program where a nurse's aid came in twice a week and an RM came once a week. 

I have it and our daughter is a redhead like my wife. I pray when it gets bad I don't say or do anything out of line with her.
When I hear these stories, I always imagine the "child" (son or daughter) looks quite a bit like their parent did when younger.

Which makes me wonder if doing something to counteract the similarity would help...

Wear a hat?  Fake moustache, beard?   

I don't know, I can see how this idea could be unworkable due to insurmountable silliness, but maybe you can run with it in a way that ends up working out!
I understand the whole you’re not supposed to correct.  But you also have to respect your boundaries and the boundaries of your husband. 

This happened to my mom with her father (my grandpa). It’s hard. It’s hard for the person with dementia and it’s hard for their child. You don’t ever want to see your parent thinking you’re their spouse. My grandpa thought that my mom was his wife and that my dad was running around with her. This was a time when we would correct. It’s too hard on everyone. Then when it got too hard we had to put in distance. This proved tricky because my mom was the primary contact and person who took to all appointments plus she was the power of attorney. We had to find other resources and other ways to do things because it wasn’t fair to her. Or him. He was in so much distress thinking she was leaving him all the time. 

Find other resources available and think of other ways to distract or distance. We used angels and services available through the VA. We also called In other family members. Who also tried to say it was too hard on them. I had to step up and be harsh in order to help protect my mom. Someone has to care for the caregivers. Yes, dementia is hard on the person losing reality. But it is also hard for those watching and still living in our reality. Help be an advocate for them too.
My mom thinks I’m her sister she doesn’t understand we have different parents, that hers are my grandparents. If I try and correct it she just cries and says no one told her. I’ve told her she’s my mom, more crying, and since when , she says no one told her she was my mom . I don’t think she’s being creepy, it’s the disease and she honestly doesn’t know, not that it makes it any better or easier to deal with.
OP, I would suggest you start with establishing a line with your local police, Adult Protective Services, Child Protective Services (if you have children), and your MIL physicians. Have cameras installed discreetly in every room of your home. If authorities do not believe you that MIL try to get amorous with your husband, show authorities the video evidence. I regretted not installing cameras in my certain rooms in my home and my family have to suffer tremendous consequences because of it.   


DISCLAIMER: The post I'm writing below is extremely NSFW.   


This reminds me of my MIL with behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia which are known to exhibit hyper sexual behavior at late stage. She mistook my husband for my FIL. She's in late stage as well when diagnosed (still extremely independent and able bodied). We followed the rules to never correct her when we decided to have her live with us for care and it does not end well whatsoever. MIL became extremely possessive of my husband and it progresses to every male that she came into contact with (either being in the same room with her or a postman that delivers our mail daily).  


In just 2 weeks when she moved in with us after being diagnosed, she mistook me as my husband (FIL) mistress and pushed me down the stairs breaking my ankle. The trigger was my husband saying good morning to me and giving me smooch on the lips. Then we took her to visit SIL and being Caucasians, my husband greet SIL with hugs and air kisses. Upon such sight, my MIL grabbed serrated bread knife from dining table and stabbed my SIL arm. I should've called police and APS at this time but I dont have power of attorney and my SIL simply cut all ties with MIL and my husband swept it under the rug because we all know MIL is sick with dementia.  


6 months later, she sexually assault a male caregiver by fondling his privates mistaking him for FIL (even though they are nowhere lookalike). Her disease has progressed where she believe every male is FIL and get really possessive when females are present and will physically hurt females simply because she perceive the females are getting too close to the males. A week after she assaulted the male caregiver, MIL sexually assault my husband in the car by trying to perform oral sex on him when he's driving. Then MIL moved on to my oldest son (13 y.o) and sexually assault him after barging into his bedroom. Do note that my MIL is able bodied. None of the dementia affected her mobility and physical strength. She also operate on full adrenaline rush whenever she received pushback making her extremely strong and violent.  


TLDR: Do not hesitate to call the Police ASAP and have her removed from your home whenever you see she even begin to attempt getting amorous with your husband. Always have Adult Protective Service number and video evidence on the ready. Have your husband leave the room/home, lock the doors and call the police. Be ready to present video evidence (you can store them in icloud for easy retrieval if you use iphone) to facilitate MIL removal.  


My MIL is now permanently institutionalized at state psychiatric hospital secured wing because of the video evidence. My husband was reluctant to report his sexual assault (because she's his mom) and simply did nothing (believing there's nothing one can do since MIL has dementia) when MIL assaulted our oldest son. Its the video evidences I handed to the police and APS on top of MIL gouging the eye of female meter maid for simply nodding/greeting to my husband as they pass each other on the street that made the judge revoke my husband guardianship and made MIL permanent ward of the state.  


Do not be afraid of losing privacy by installing secret cameras in your home because if your husband or your son do end up sexually assaulted by demented MIL it will be a lifetime of pain and trauma that my family is still gasping to heal from.
I am so sorry this happened to you and your family. You have totally nailed my concern. Before she got dementia, she was an overly-possessive Jocasta mother. When she was in the mid-stage dementia she started getting extremely aggressive with me and telling her sister that she kept confusing my husband with his dad. I was only safe from her when he was in the room and I was in physical contact with him. She stole my clothing and also claimed to have the same (highly specialized) profession that I do when she never did anything remotely similar. Now that she is in the late stages, she mistakes many men for her husband not just her son/DH. She is resistant to redirection and has also started getting physically aggressive with her female care-givers. My main concern is his safety as we do not have good family support and I am honestly a little afraid of her. She's incredibly strong as fast and I don't really want him alone with her anymore.
At this point, your best bet is to convince your husband to take action and start talking to Social Services and APS to have your MIL permanently institutionalized. When we tried to put my MIL in reputable (meaning the facility that doesn’t drug dementia patients to oblivion) memory care, we are declined based on her history of aggressions. 

If your husband swept it under the rug, be proactive and approach social services and APS yourself. Keep documentations of your interactions with MIL so you have evidence to have her removed for both MIL and your family welfare.

Have your husband handle her estate and stuff before talking to Medicare and Adult Protective Services so that Medicare don’t come for all her assets that she can inherit to your husband.

If you have a good local cop, sign up for daily random welfare checks so the cops pushing the doorbell can serve as distraction for your MIL. Whenever male cops shows up on our door, my MIL suddenly become sweet as kitten and flirtatious instantaneously dropping her level of aggressions. At first I thought the polar behavior shifts from threatening to kill me one second and being flirty to male cop looks like major bipolar disorder, but turns out it’s parts and parcel of her dementia.

As far as stealing clothes and things, my MIL believed (due to her dementia) it was hers and that I’m the thief. When my husband told her that the thing was mine, she got enraged. She cut all my good makeup brushes and left nail marks all over my makeup palettes, she also threaten me at knife point for my wedding ring which she can’t fit on her finger and promptly lost god knows where. I was so scared she’s going to stab me since I’m alone in the house, I took my ring off, gave it to her and ran out of the house to my neighbor and called the cops from their house. In hindsight, I should’ve had my phone with me 247 cuz after that incident, all the neighbor knows our shit.

She has never stole my clothes because I’m a size US 2 - 4 and she’s size US 12. She did however out of demented jealousy (mistaking me for the mistress) went and cut up my clothes with scissors and use scented candle lighter to burn my clothes. 

After all this incidents, I begin securing my belongings with lock and key. She only live with us for 8 months before she’s permanently institutionalized.

My husband and I got permission to visit her at the mental institution and she seemed well there. No aggressions, she just sit or pace around her room. We are not allowed to go inside her cell because our presence might disrupt the routine and causes major episodes. We just looked through a window to see that she’s well and leave. My children are terrified of her they told their therapist they don’t want to visit her or have anything to do with her.

Again, I urge you to set things right as soon as possible so you don’t end up like me. There are many days I curse myself for this predicament and now that I met someone with similar situation, I hope it doesn’t happen to you and your family. It gives me solace in my life as a person knowing that I helped someone avoid my situation. 

Best of luck to you, OP!
I read your reply to DH and he said, "whelp that's what she's been doing to you. You never have to see her again." That's a relief but I'm already out of the picture as much as possible. I don't want him alone with her and he still thinks he's safe. Maybe it's going to take her going for his junk to get him to wake up?

Thank you for sharing.
Do remember that my MIL sexually assaulted my husband and he shove it under the rug. Not long after, she sexually assaulted our son and my husband still shrug it off. 

My husband believed that the burden of the sick loved ones should be borne by family. He still believed his mother is in that body and told our oldest to grow a pair it’s just grandma and she’s sick. Not sure if we have similar case, but had I not made police report and my MIL permanently disable a law enforcement officer (meter maid) by gouging her eyes, my children will still have to live under the same roof as their attacker - think for one moment as a normal human being how it would feel to have to live with your attacker. Protect your children at all cost and don’t worry about your husband. He likely had made up his mind whether or not sexual assault takes place.
