There probably is not an answer. 

Your grandmother will have to grow into the new situation and change is hard. 

You can go visit. You can call. You can write letters. 

Don’t try to get her to change her mind. Tell her stories from your life about crummy landlords or crazy roommates or what you are studying or your favorite podcasts.
If she refused to leave her own house and mostly just read and watched TV, then that is what she will mostly do at her new place. My mom moved to Assisted Living a few years ago but did so with my stepfather, and willingly, which helped. 

\- Remember the staff is used to people coming out of necessity rather than by choice, so they have a lot of strategies to help her move through this. 

\- Having to go to the dining room for meals is a natural way to get her out and seeing other people, and noticing the seasonal decoration and signs for upcoming activities. She may eventually find that one or more of the people she sees there or in the halls are potential friends, even just someone to complain to. 

\- My mom is legally blind now and we found she oriented to her new home better after we walked around the residence with her.  Where does this door go? What is in the library? I wonder who does the gardening? It all helped her feel more at home. We took our time, and sat down in most of the rooms and spoke a few words to others who were there. We let her be the "tour guide" for the people who came after she knew the place more. 

\- With her complaints - take her feelings seriously and validate them, but then change the subject to more positive and interesting things going on in your life as well as hers (what is she reading? what TV show did she see last night?) 

\- My mom has taken to getting her hair done with the hairdresser in the building, and has recently started getting a manicure every month. Some people sit in the lounge by the elevator and watch people coming and going. 

\- When I take my dog in for a visit on Saturday mornings, I always see one gentleman by the elevator and we stop for a few minutes. Mom mom loves having my dog visit and several people have a dog or a cat living with them. 

\- Try to visit as often as you did when she lived in her home, and try to get her out as often, as well. Remind her to take a Tylenol before you go out if she is prone to pain. I was told it is good to let her know a day or two ahead of time, or have a regular visiting time, so she has the pleasure of anticipating the visit. 

\- My mom is more frail than she was but she still likes going to lunch in a quiet restaurant, going to pick up things from the drug store, and smaller family gatherings. 

\- There are usually church services throughout the week, if she is interested in that sort of thing. 

\- Your mom will get used to it and may even get to like it. Activities are so much easier to get to when it is just down the hall.
Are you able to take her out for visits? Maybe getting out for a bit would help. Did she get to keep her dog? If not can it come visit or can she visit it?
I don't suppose you're in Australia by any chance? I'm at the point of needing something like this for my dad, I just don't know how to find it. Bit overwhelmed at the moment
I am in Canada. My Mom and stepdad found their place through people at their Senior's Condo. The Assisted Living residence is just a few kilometers away from it, and many people simply transferred from one place to the other. It was nice - she knew several people when she moved in and there are often people moving in that she knows from her earlier years in the area or from the condo. 

I am so glad my mom moved before it was urgent. Her husband only lasted 18 months in good health and 6 months when he quickly went downhill and died. It would have been so much harder on both of them had they not been in Assisted Living. 

It is overwhelming, but there should be people and organizations that can help. It is better to get on it sooner rather than later - if it is anything like here there can be a wait if you want something in a specific area. All the best to you.
*Gruff voice* thank you
