We've started saving the amount we'd have paid in premiums for long term care insurance.  Since the amount you can collect is capped but the amount you'd pay in premiums is not we figure we'll come out ahead.  My in-laws paid far more in than they could collect so we were determined to avoid that mistake.  If we don't use it all, we'll be leaving a nice inheritance for our kids.
I'm assuming you are in the US? If so your best bet is probably voting from what I've seen.
My family is struggling to pay for LTC right now.  Your best bet is to hope that we shift to a socialized healthcare system.  There simply isn’t a viable business model for private LTC. Many families eventually have to divest the sick of assets and rely on government assistance to cover nursing home coverage.
Day programs are considerably more affordable and than institutional settings or a caregiver 24/7
$12000 a month?  I guess it depends on how skilled you need.  My dad is in an ALF for $3200 a month - mom pays $2100 and Medicaid pays the rest via a Qualified Income Trust.  

The home is wonderful and the people who work there are almost like his family.  He's been there almost 2 years.
So a savings fund... Why did your decide not to do an official FHSA/HSA?
Thankful every day that we’re going through this in Canada. 2 family members affected and nobody is bankrupt or on the street.
Everyone who cares about the long term care issue should be voting for Bernie Sanders. His medicare for all plan includes long term care for seniors. 

It's sickening to me that this is not in place now. It's long over-due. imo
With a dementia patient you can spend a couple of hours getting him dressed and ready to go only to havevh refuse to go at the last minute. Day programs can be really good but they aren't for everyone.
You're lucky but eventually people will transition to SNF when ALFs disqualify themselves from handling more complex Alzheimer's cases which can be the case toward the end of life. 12k was what we were quoted for SNFs.
We max out our HSA every year and for the most part, have spent it on our deductible.  That gets used for short term health care.  If they had existed when we were younger we could have built it up more but they are a relatively new phenomenon.
Do any of the others include long term care?  I hate bernie and will not vote for him.  So if there's an alternative, that would be nice.
I guess we are lucky. They have four tough cases and two fairly easy ones in the house. My dad is the easiest but he doesn’t have Alzheimer’s like some of the others. He has the kind of dementia where he is always pretty happy and content. Just can’t care for himself. But mobile and talkative. Three are completely bed bound.
No.
Sad.  Still not voting for him tho.  Don't believe he will keep his promise anyway.
I'm not going to argue with you about Bernie. I AM voting for him. 

It's just a fact that he has the best (and only) plan to protect seniors. If that isn't an issue for you then great. If it is an issue then I'll leave you with this, when he wins (He will) you too will benefit from his policies.
I kind of feel like you are arguing with me.  I'm going to have to really read through the promises of the presidential candidates this year.  Warren seems to include long term care too I just don't know what she plans to include.
