In order, your answers are: dementia is forgetting things.  Being unable to follow long conversations is a common sign.

At the end, the sufferer forgets how to swallow and starves to death, if another infection or suicide doesn't kill them first.  Older people typically don't suicide, but younger people who know the progression are more likely to choose to not live through this long, long dying process. 

There is no average lifespan.  It can be months or decades.

Try to go see your grandpa and talk about everything you want to know now.  Every week will get worse until he forgets you, then forgets himself.  I'm sorry.
First sorry to hear, this  disease is horrible for everyone involved. The first thing you should do is get all the legal stuff (And finances in order) while the person still has some mental function. Things like Power of Attorney, advanced directive (how much to do medically to sustain a person), and getting finances and wills updated and in place.  It's a pain , but it will save a lot of grief in the end stages.

Second as to the  signs of death, its impossible to say exactly as it depends as others said, on a person's age, disease progression, other medical issues, living conditions (does he have any caregivers). Generally folks with severe dementia the most common causes, will no longer be able to speak clearly or take care of themselves ,in the late stages which can be anywhere from 3-15 years depending after the initial diagnosis, are Pulmonary aspiration  (they inhale food , fluids into lungs ) and it develops into pneumonia, about 40% die this way. The other major cause is Lack of appetite /drink (also called "failure to thrive"), folks with end stage dementia lose the cognitive ability to sustain themselves coupled with the compromised ability to swallow or chew. Finally a mix of other things like falls, urinary track infections, dehydration, gastrointestinal issues all lead to complications which eventually result in death. Basically it sucks, the mind basically goes long before the body .
