See his doctor as to why he has to urinate every 30 minutes? My dad is 93 and he doesnt want to get up at night so no liquids after 6pm, he wears an adult diaper all day so he makes sure to change that at bedtime. Only things other than a caregiver. Have you looked into someone coming in at night?
My dad also went through this process. His doctor suggested we test for recurring UTIs whenever his need to urinate was this frequent. And a routine physical indicated an issue with his prostate, as well.  


This is a pricey option, too, but you might want to look into an overnight caregiver through one of the online caregiving sites. Prior to finding Dad a caregiver, I was up with him every night, every thirty minutes. An overnight caregiver literally saved my sanity and helped keep Dad safe when he'd get up at night. We used [Care.com](https://Care.com) and vetted each of our candidates very carefully.   


You can also look into places that offer respite care, as even a few days of rest might hugely benefit your mom and not break the bank like a permanent move to a facility.   


Good luck and I'm sorry your family and father are going through this. Dementia is a wicked disease.
 Can he apply for Medicaid? It is a long process. Has a 5 year financial look back period. I am in the process with my 68 year old husband.
No easy answer here, first and foremost do get help for your mother, its called respite care, and its either a visiting caregiver (least expensive) or a facility .  If the financials are overwhelming, go look at your states local aging department and see if they have any programs. If your parents are poor enough they may qualify for Medicaid, but Medicaid services are generally very poor quality and the number of facilities that offer them are few.

As for the  urination,don't spend the effort to try to get them to the bathroom, just use quality  adult diapers as they are simplest option, good ones, have multiple absorbent layers.  Additionally as the person becomes more bedridden, a condom catheter, but its a pain to apply and remove, it only makes sense when the person is bedridden.
My Papa has this same issue. By the time he got back to bed, it was time for him to go again. It was a prostate issue, and the doctor put him on a medicine to reduce the swelling, which enabled him to fully empty his bladder.  You may want to ask the doctor about trying something like that. 

You can call your local Area on Aging, they can give you a list of memory care/nursing homes that accept Medicaid.  It sounds like your poor Mom is ready to drop. Do they have any family or friends that could come in to take a night shift, so she can get some sleep?
Definitely a bladder issue that requires medication. Could be a UTI, causing dementia-like symptoms. I was diagnosed last year with progressive vascular dementia and live in an assisted living facility, private room, out-of-pocket and I pay $1700/month, meals included, laundry done, nursing assistance, nice place. It does NOT provide memory care, but I do have others with dementia in the facility and we have an activity director who does activities designed for those with cognitive impairment.
Thank you. Even though he started to wear the adult diaper recently, my dad still thinks and behaves as if he were wearing the normal underwear. His doctor prescribed Melatonin 5mg for dad to sleep a little longer.
A lot of these places don’t accept Medicare
Thank you for the information. May I ask which city/state you live? Take care.
Correct, the few I talked with (we live in Southern California) are all private and do not accept Medicare or Medicaid.
I live in an Assisted Living facility in Corpus Christi, TX.
Talk to senior services, or call DHHS, or 411 if that's in your area.  I was given a 60 page report that listed local care centers.  I spent ages on the phone.  I called them in chunks of 10 a day, leaving a message that I needed one that accepted Medicare, while I got my father approved for Medicare placement.  I got call after call back saying no, and it was discouraging, but I kept going.  It took about 2 months and the approval and the spot came at about the same time.  My father currently has his own room, covered by Medicare.  It's a time consuming process, but it will be when ever you start it, so begin sooner than later.
