Not this specifically, but we've long stopped counting on my MIL being able to come to family events. She missed her brother's funeral.

It's really easiest to take it day by day. Sometimes even going outside is scary, but other days she'll go to a family dinner no problem. We plan for both things now and don't have any expectations either way, and that's helped a lot.
A lot can happen between now and Christmas- both good and bad.  I don't think you need to be deciding right this minute.  When it gets closer to Christmas, ask some of the staff at her home what they think.  You only see a slice of her life and condition when visiting, but they see the 24/7.  They will know if she's up to doing an outside visit.  Also, she may not be disappointed in not coming for reasons others have mentioned- so many people, noise etc.
When my grandfather was very sick we took the party to him. We rented a room in the home, brought all the food and everyone had dinner & opened presents there. He was able to come be with us for a few hours, the nurses were still around to make sure he was comfortable, and he didn’t have to leave the home to go to an unfamiliar place. It was a little strange having dinner together on paper plates in a different dining room, but it was worth it to be with him for our last Christmas together.  We went back to my mom’s house for dessert after we had tidied everything up at the home, so we still got a chance to unwind and be silly together too.
I struggled with this before and of I had it to do over again, I would have tried to hire someone to help for the bathroom or other things.  We would visit my dad at his care facility but I know that if there was any sliver of his character still wrestling inside his mind, he would have liked to have gotten out more.  That said, he also liked to leave if he didn't fall asleep on the couch.  
If she can hang out and just be there it might be good for her though I am no expert.  But I think I'd hire someone to help her unless you all are good at the bathroom helping and it's not going to be stressful for you.

Talk to your mom and really look at what the day will look like and see if there is some who could easily take her back to the care home of she's needs to go.

Good luck.
I haven't although we will be this Christmas. My grandma is in the hospital and should be going into a care home in Monday. From a memory point of view things aren't bad yet but mobility is a massive issue and my parents house has steps to get in and little steps between levels downstairs. I'm kind of hoping she'll be happy in the care home for Christmas because it would be so much easier and safer for everyone. I guess we'll find out more once we've got her into the care home next week as it's all new to us.
It still hurts me that my sister can't be at holidays and family events, but it's the best solution for her and everyone. She would also be horrified if more people saw her as she is now. It's one of the difficult stages of this disease, accepting that they can't join family for important events.
Exactly this.   Talk to the people who see her and care for her every day,  at all times and in all situations.   They will be your best guide at this point.
That sounds lovely! The home my grandma is in has very limited space so I don’t think renting a room would be an option, especially when our family is as big as it is (my grandma had 6 kids and nearly all of them have kids of their own) but it goes along with my idea to go there and see her instead, even if it’s just for an hour or two. To be honest she’s so confused most of the time now that I doubt she’d even realise it was Christmas, but of course that doesn’t mean she should miss out on it. I never thought something like this would be a problem but this horrible illness continues to surprise me. When my grandad was dying in hospice we managed to get him to a family bbq for one last time, I think the difference there was that he was still completely there mentally his body was just shutting down so it wasn’t so much stressful, just very sad. I guess it’ll be more of a play it by ear situation until the day comes.
