What my therapist tells me when I worry about the future that is nowhere near the foreseeable future: "Try to be here, now, and worry about what is now, not what you THINK might happen in the future"  
Unhelpful on the financial aspect, but am I correct in understanding that no one in your family has it yet? Are there some reasons you're concerned it will happen soon?  
Dementia doesn't usually hit suddenly and then you're left having to try to find a way to deal with it ASAP.  
I have a slightly different case with my mom; when the dementia started becoming very difficult my father built a room in his business to have her nearby and take care of her. Financially, they could be receiving more as she has a disability but they avoid it. I don't know what will happen when she needs more, but we will figure that out as her needs progress as it won't help worrying about it now, it's better just to enjoy what we have with her now.
Bernie Sanders medicare for all plan includes long term care for seniors. Something to keep in mind.
Where are you located?  In MN, I’ve found out through the elder care attorney that essentially, my parents are on their own financially.  There are state run homes where if they are “poor” enough and once they are in memory care, they will not be kicked out once their assets run out.  Of the five memory care homes we visited, the nicest one was state run.  It sounds awful, but it may be to your advantage if your parents aren’t doing well financially. 

Do you see a therapist for your anxiety?  Please do.  You shouldn’t worry too much about this until one of them is diagnosed.  Take care!
I worried about the same thing... How could I possibly afford care for my mom! She was diagnosed with dementia in 2012. She passed away this past February. 

We did our best to care for her at home for a long time. Medicare paid for the visiting nurse to come a few days a week. When the disease progressed to the point we could no longer care for her at home, the doctor insisted we put her in a nursing home. I couldn't imagine how I'd do it considering dementia care at a home in my area is $10,000 to $12,000 a month.  My parents own a house, but very little left in savings and I didn't make enough to afford that! 

I spoke to my mom's doctor about my fears. Eventually my mother fell at home and had to go to the ER. Her doctor arranged for the hospital to send her to a nursing home for what they said was "physical rehabilitation". Medicare covered the cost for a few months. The doctors did this for me, so I would have the time to line up Medicaid. Medicaid paid the entire cost of the nursing home. 

I had NO IDEA what I was doing. I was scared and my father was so upset about my mother's condition he was no help. My mother's doctor and the hospital had services that helped me every step. The nursing home was a great help too. In the end I paid nothing out of pocket. 

Basically this situation is new to you, but the care providers have been through this hundreds of times and will be able to help. Everything worked out when caring for my mom and now my father was recently diagnosed and I'm not worried. I know I'm prepared!
Go to alz.org and call them. Things vary from State to State. Generally you are not liable for caring for your parents. Generally that is balanced by not being responsible or liable for their decisions. 

Once moving to being their legal and fiscal guardians you are both liable for neglect and finances in some measure.

Call alz.org to get some facts.
Medicare will pay 100 days per year as skilled care if the patient comes out of a hospital after spending at least 3 days.  80/20 so make sure everyone has purchased a supplement.  So if they don’t qualify for Medicare, Medicaid will take over.  Make sure someone is assigned to be power of attorney.  When dementia is involved, someone needs to make the decisions.  Do this before the patient can no longer make decisions.  Lawyers cannot assign POA if the patient cannot answer yes or no.  The spouse can keep the house and 1 car as assets.  Everything else can have a lien place on it by means of a Miller Trust.  It is a vehicle that is used to get the bills paid.  All liquid assets are placed in the trust and bills can be paid from it.  After patient dies any monies after NH is paid goes  paid back to estate.

Only the spouse is liable for patients care.  A Nursing Home Director told me “Get rid of everything because we will take it”.  My husband needed skilled care off and on for 11 years until he passed away.  All I had left was my car and my husband life insurance to pay the funeral expenses.  Don’t lose sleep over bills.  You are not liable for your parents expenses.  There are financial people at the Nursing Home who figure out how to pay for the bills.  

Pay attention to the news whenever Republicans are in control they look to chip away at what Medicare will pay for.  They hold the purse strings.  Keep the name of your Congressman and Senator on speed dial.  If enough constituents complain the less likely they are to making cuts.
well, my grandmother does have it. However, my grandfather died relatively young and left her with a great long term care insurance policy. she is about 4 years into it. I don't know how in the world it's all going to shake down once her money runs out.
located in TN, so i would have to see how the laws look down in the south. My grandmother does have it, which I failed to mention in the original post.
Thanks for this. Needed to read something like this amidst all the horror stories I've been reading elsewhere
Thanks for this - what if the dementia patient is a widow with no spouse who is liable for their care?
Not you.  A surviving spouse with no assets would qualify for Medicaid.  No assets means a car with no value and less than $1,500.00 in their Checking Account.  I know this from applying and being disqualified for Medicaid because my car had too much value.  The SS office expected me to sell my car pay my husbands bill with the proceeds.  So no assets mean just that.  Find out your parents financial situation.  The more you know the better you can plan for their care later on.
