My significant other’s grandmother has advanced dementia and a g-tube. She receives all of her food through it because she physically can’t eat (unrelated to her dementia). We have a caretaker come to the house on a daily basis through home health. See if your family member is covered by their insurance for home health, or talk with a case manager to see what your options are. You don’t have to be alone.
It might be time for home health.

You cannot reasonably be expected to manage his ostomy or elimination needs 24/7. While it kind of sounds like your father is still somewhat able to help himself with basic tasks, it doesn’t seem like he has any capacity to do so in relation to his ostomy.

(I make this assumption because it seems like you’re still able to attempt to give him direction and guidance with care, but the directions with the ostomy are not sticking).

If he cannot be left alone to manage the bag, and cannot participate in changing the system, then you’re going to need to have someone help him with that, and while it’s really awesome that you help him as much as you do with this, there’s no way you could humanly do it all night, every night.

It isn’t always easy to transition to having a home health carer come in part time to help with stuff like this, but I can guarantee you that for most carers, this isn’t their first rodeo. I definitely remember having to come in to go home health for families who had never been in that situation before, but it can be done.

You can help them when they first get introduced to your father so that he gets a little more accustomed to seeing them around, and then let them take over on those nights when you can’t be there.
Call your local Area on Aging to ask about getting home health services.
Adult day care maybe? Not sure if your work hours but most of the time it’s covered by insurance. Is he a vet? If so, the VA can have a companion come during the times you work!
Definitely get assessed for care needs and a carer should be provided or hired to come several times a day. There should be an allowance for this (depending on where you are in the world). The stranger help thing will have to be overcome sometime unfortunately as things aren't likely to improve. And you are doing an amazing job, but you can't do everything.
Thanks. Home Health "discharged" us after the surgery because I thought he would be able to learn to take care of most of it himself, especially the daily emptying and the night bag hookup. I was naive I guess, it didn't occur that he'd be unable to handle even that.

He's so anti-social, I don't know if he'd allow a stranger to stay with him overnight if I wanted to go out of town. 

I'm going to plug along and keep trying to teach him, maybe repetition is the key, I don't know. I know the disease is  working against me, but I feel he's not past the point of learning something  new. 

Maybe I'll give it another month or two.
He's completely uninterested in adult day care, I've tried. He's a homebody. Not a vet either.
Thanks. I know it will come to that eventually. He's just in that weird middle place where he can still do enough himself that a nurse seems like overkill. A nurse coming in just to empty a bag or hook one up? It's a 2-minute situation. 

I think mostly I'm just frustrated that he hasn't been able to learn how to take care of it on his own. It's not complicated, but it just seems beyond his abilities and it's sad.
Could you maybe also write out step by step directions for him? Maybe with photos of each step? It could help him to get through the task on his own - maybe he won’t remember how to do it but will remember to follow the checklist of instructions?
I get it. I’d hate to leave my house if I was confused too. Try aplaceformom.com, they helped me find home care and set up appointments for ALFs to tour in my area. They will call anytime day or night.

Edit: typo
It is really sad. Unfortunately we're way past this point with my dad, so I totally remember this feeling and the whole situation sucks. It may give you peace of mind though to have someone pop in while you're not there, even if it is only a couple of minutes.
Yes, that's possible. I've thought of getting a little whiteboard with things for him to remember. He just has to remember to look at it! Ha.
