My mother in law was convinced I was going to kill her almost all day for about a month.  This soon passed, thank goodness.  Don't take it personally.  It really is the disease.
Its confronting isnt it. Does it help to think of it the other way round - he TRULY believes you are evil, dangerous or horrid. 

I'm not saying you are just that in his head you are so in fact what you are doing, in my opinion, is right. Isolate away when the aggression comes out because you are only going to make it worse for him. Can you imagine the fear he must feel? 

I have noticed after many years of watching Mum and others in her care home that it is most often the ones they love the most who cop the abuse and even violence but I have no explanations to why that is. 

How about love those times when he accepts you and remove yourself when he doesnt? At least you have others there so he wont come to harm which is all we want for them, right? I Know this is hard but just try to see what he is doing is very real to him. You're not horrid or evil it's a phase and it will stop, change and may even resurface so protect him and yourself.
[deleted]
I used to get along great with my MIL, but looking back, since her symptoms started, I wasn't as welcome as part of the family. It's tough, but it really is the disease. They need help, and you need to take whatever space you need. That may mean hiring someone so it's not as much on you. It might mean waiting until your grandpa forgets he thought of you that way. You might even need to reintroduce yourself so he can meet you fresh. 

It's not personal, it's the dementia.
I would say it's a fairly common behaviour for a person with dementia. My mother and I used to have a pretty good, or at least decent relationship. Now since her dementia's worsened, she berates me daily and blames everything bad in her life on me, tells me she wishes I was dead, has physically attacked me etc. It's crazy and it's hard not to take it personally but I know it's not really her doing it. I've been told by multiple healthcare professionals that's unfortunately just another way the disease can manifest.

So sorry to say but I think staying away from your granddad and maintaining boundaries is a good idea if he seems to be triggered by you. Also what's best to keep you mentally sane . Nobody deserves to be abused regardless of why it's happening. Maybe another thing worth checking out is if your granddad could have a UTI. I've heard that can cause unprovoked aggression/irritability in older folks. Otherwise best case scenario, it's just a phase he's going through that he'll grow out of once he gets more use to you being in the household. I know it's already been 4 months but a lot of folks with dementia find it hard to accept changes and it takes them a lot longer to adjust.
[deleted]
Someone said to talk to him during a moment of clarity. I would try this. I have found that being very open and forthcoming about how my dad's words can affect me (crying helps, at least for my dad). For instance, my dad would accuse me of stealing his clothes and selling them (like they were super valuable). Or his money. Or other things. I would ask him why he thought that? And I would say things like: I love you so much, why would I do [x]? I'm doing the very best I can to take care of you. Do you not trust me? Why? Do you think I don't love you?

I have found that allowing my emotions to show helped him to empathize with me. Granted, my dad is exceptionally empathetic. Maybe that wouldn't work for your grandfather. 

People say that those with dementia simply won't remember, but I find that (in my own experience), they *do* remember feelings very well. In time those feelings can subside and disappear. My dad definitely remembers (little recall memory though) things he loves and things that make him feel frustrated or upset. If you're grandfather is sweet and pleasant in the mornings, and if emoting at him isn't helpful, then spend a lot of quality time with him in the mornings and avoid him in the evenings for a while, maybe a month, maybe two? If he does not experience those visceral emotions for long enough, he will eventually forget them and stop being triggered by you. 

It sounds like he has sundowners pretty intensely. Mood altering drugs could help even out his emotions also.

I do think you will get to a place with your grandfather where this no longer happens. Until then, I wish you an emotional coat of arms to protect yourself from his painful words.
maybe (at a kinda clear moment) it is possible to ask him why he hates you?

and whatever his answer is, tell him, you love him and you are proud of him?

at the beginning, mum was sure dad and I plotted things to make her crazy and forget stuff, let stuff disappear or move things so she does not find them, that passed after some month though
I'm sorry for your experience with this. My grandpa also presents a nasty personality when he's in a bad mood. He one time accused my dad and his siblings (my aunts and uncles) of trying to steal his money and kick him out of his house. He is very concerned with his money, but he doesn't have the ability to judge like he used to. In fact, he was scammed twice and lost like thousands of dollars. In the aftermath, he could not remember if he ever was scammed and my dad and aunts and uncles had to clean up his mess. 

With dementia and with other memory disorders, much of them are triggered when our brain tissue starts to shrink. In fact, a human brain with Alzheimer's has lost much of the memory function that we don't have the ability to think and remember like we used to when we were younger. I also think that people with Alzheimer's and dementia have a distorted reality. Some elderly people will think of things that only happen in their minds, even though it didn't happen in reality. Also, our emotions are out of wack. So with your grandpa, he can't seem to control his emotions and perhaps, his anger and distorted reality has lead him to believe that you are not good enough for him. Don't take it too personally, even though it hurts to hear a person you love accuse you of something that only happened in their mind. 

I suggest you talk to a specialist who knows a lot about dementia and other memory disorders. Ask them questions that you believe will make you feel better. Also, tell them about your grandpa's attitude towards you and ask if there is something wrong with his grip with reality. Bring this to the attention of your mom and be prepared that bigger actions might be taken, such as placing him in a care facility or having the power of attorney over his finances. I hope this is enough for you and all the best for you!
I know it's terrible. My father recently had surgery and during his time in the hospital he was so confused and dysphoric that he said some horrible things to me just because I was trying to prevent him from pulling out his IVs and getting out of bed. It hurt so much to hear those words.

But it really IS the disease talking. It's not him.

It's so cruel, I know. It does change your relationship, that's inevitable. I'm so sorry. It just sucks.
Can you guys get financial aid to move your grandfather into a care home?.  My state also offers compensation for hiring an in home carer.  Or pays the relatives taking care of their loved ones some money for taking care of them.  Perhaps this way your mom can afford to hire someone else to take care of your grandfather instead.

If he's affecting your emotional well being, I'd move out honestly.
I got screamed at and called all kinds of vile names last month, when mine decided at the dinner table that I had become the person he used to stay with. It is really hard not to take it personally, but it is the disease talking.
Hi guys, thanks for the advice and sharing your own stories. It’s good to know you’re not alone. 

Just as an update, it did continue to get worse with him not only no longer recognising me, but accusing me of having an affair with my grandmother. 

I eventually had no choice to move out for my own mental health. Completely unrelated but I moved out in December and this February my apartment flooded and ive had to move back for a month or two. I’m a very lucky man as you can tell haha. 

On the plus side, during these months his overall demeanour has improved while I’ve not been living there. Though he still forgets who I am from time to time, he hasn’t been as aggressive and I’ve managed to begin to see him as my Grandad again. 

My aunty who is a nurse says he is in the final stages so it may only be a year or two, so I am trying to salvage as much as I can from my grandad before it’s too late.

Thanks again for the help and responses and sorry it’s taken so long to say thank you.
I don't have any advice, as I'm looking for some myself, but I believe I have experience with this situation (I think). My landlord has for many years been very nice and respectful to me and seemed to like me. She is very old. I used to think of her as being the best landlord in the world. For the past year however, and actually the past 3 months especially, she is really getting worse and worse. I keep questioning to myself if something is going on with her. Her personality has completely changed. She forgets the way things were, blames me for things I did not cause, loses the keys, and such. Lately she acts like she hates my guts, gives me the dirtiest looks, makes fun of me, puts me down, tells me I can't park on the street in front of the unit (even though I'd been doing it for many years and nothing was said), questions me as to what I'm doing when I walk through the property (as if she thinks I'm going to steal or something else illegal), even though she has seen me do these things for years, such as getting the mail, throwing out the trash, etc.; now she questions me every time I do them.) This is just a side of her that I did not see the first 6 years I lived there, and now she seems to be hateful, angry, and spiteful, like she is hoping I will move out. I do want to leave, but I just do not have the resources to do so at this time. I don't know if this is dementia I am seeing in her or what, but it really makes me feel bad that she is treating me this way all of sudden. We used to have a good relationship, or so I thought, over the years. Now when I pay the rent, she doesn't even let me inside anymore, she had me wait outside and I pay it through the door. She seems suspicious of me, like maybe she thinks I'm going to steal, or did steal, or something. It really makes me feel bad. I have no idea what I did wrong, or what she thinks I did. She won't discuss it with me, either. I don't like to be the cause of discord like this, and so I can't fix what's wrong if I don't know what I did.
I try not too. It’s just daily and so irrational. He’ll spend the morning telling me how proud he is off me and stuff then by the afternoon he’s saying I’m evil and I’ve ruined his life. Then a few hours later comes out her crying apologising cause he knows he’s said something but can’t remember what. It’s such a cruel disease :(
That is a good point. When my dad was being awful in the hospital, what helped was trying to remember what he must be feeling: waking up in a strange place, people poking and prodding, connected to tubes, not allowing you to even get up on your own. It must be horribly disorienting, and not to mention demeaning especially for a man who has his whole life been completely independent.
Yeah, especially when it’s coming from other members of the family they tell me not to take it personally. And I know it’s irrational that I take it personally because I know it’s not how he feels about me, but at that very moment in time it’s exactly how he feels about me and he says it all with such conviction and venom that just destroys me every time.
The one thing I've seen is if he's aggressive with family he will be aggressive with caregivers. It stinks to pay for someone to help with him and he gets so mean they can't or won't do what you need. The caregiver attitude and awareness of how to work with dementia make a huge difference but for us the meds make things work.
Wow, I know what you mean! I hope things have gotten better, behavior issues are as important as health issues and what he's doing should be told to his doctors. When there are behavior problems it can mean he's in pain - or just mean and angry.
Read my lips. There is no free State help or aid for dementia.
I was my mother's full time caretaker for 4 years.  She would tell me she hated me, that  the day I was born her life was ruined. She would get on the floor on her knees screaming and wailing for God to come and destroy me. The day I moved out, she had tried to strangle me. It's hard not to take that personally.
My mother in law half the time doesn't like her daughter (my wife) later on she apologized for being rude.
Caregiver personality plays a huge role as well. Some of us are just more sensitive to things and it's how we're built. It is NOT irrational that you take it personally. You're a person with feelings and you're being attacked by someone you love. That is totally normal AND okay to feel the way that you feel. Just walk away when he's like that for now. You do not have to listen to it. It does not benefit him nor you. I'd imagine it's hard on your Gpa as well. Medication should definitely be explored.
I agree with u/todayforsure. My father was not happy to have my sons around, he believed he should be the "dominant male" (his words) and he was contentious and aggressive towards them. One son moved out, the one one who just let things go and moved along. The other son reacted to dad and would yell back and try to argue which could get a "combative" response. I demanded meds the day I got between the two of them and realized what a disaster things had become. Getting medication for this did NOT change personality but has helped with the anxiety and aggressive behavior, don't be afraid or reluctant to ask for help.
You poor thing I feel for you so much. My mother has only been diagnosed with dementia a week ago so I’m just trying to understand it all. She was an abusive person and always little off mentally so for so long I saw her as mentally unwell. But now she has a specific diagnosis. She’s said some pretty soul destroying stuff to me and it’s SO hard it just knocks you. But you must remind yourself it’s not their heart talking their wires are crossed and not a lot makes sense. I know it still hurts though right? I’m really sorry that you’re experiencing this of course it feels personal
[deleted]
It's all medicaid money.  Just different states decide how to apply that money differently.
Oh wow. I'm so sorry that happened to you. I don't think I could get over that.
I’ve seen many posts about medication and my mother’s doctors have prescribed meds, but my mom refuses to take any pills even vitamins. She is getting more angry, at anyone who spends any time around her. She hates my dad who is still trying to care for her at home. I visit about once a month for a few days and now she is starting to treat me the way she treats him. She always had a mean streak and my family would tread very lightly when she was in a bad mood. Now her AD seems to be manifesting this side of her personality all the time. It just keeps getting worse.
The hard part of dementia is that there is no way to reason with someone and get them to accept and understand it. There is no "talk therapy" that can do any good, but anti-anxiety meds can make a difference. In my experience with my father he still has the same personality but is less aggressive. The decision to medicate isn't easy and should be discussed with his doctor.
I haven't gotten over it, probably never will. That was 2 years ago. I'm 50 years old but suddenly feel like an orphan. Mom was never really right in the head, but I thought we were fairly close. I think the dementia just caused her to lose her filter from brain to mouth and she was telling me how she had always felt about me.  We don't talk now unless forced to.
