Like you said, different people probably experience things differently and I'm no medical expert, but my dad began showing signs around the same age, but hes in year 5 since he started showing the initial short term memory issues and mild confusion, at this point he is still fairly self sufficient, he is able to do the daily tasks like clothing and feeding himself but usually has no idea what is going on at any given point and tends to panic when he doesnt see anyone that he knows around. Purely based on personal experience that is a very rapid progression.
It's all so different. My mom started showing signs around a decade ago. Her memory started slipping after she was put on Lipitor for cholesterol levels that were a little higher than the norm. When diet and exercise weren't lowering her triglycerides any, her doctor put her on Lipitor. Within a few weeks, she was experiencing severe back pain and confusion. She stopped Lipitor immediately and things seemed to improve for a while until my aunt died about a year later.

When my aunt died, my mom informed me of a genetic health condition my aunt allegedly had. She'd told me years earlier and we'd already been tested for it. She denied she knew or that she was ever tested. I'm her medical POA, so I know she'd undergone the test. I also knew I'd been tested. A few weeks after that, she'd call me to say we hadn't talked in ages, even though she'd called me just a few hours before. I was concerned at that point. It would take another three years before I could convince her primary physician to refer her to the state's memory care clinic. They diagnosed her with MCI at that point. Within a year, they'd upped it to Alzheimer's.

That was five years ago. We're coming up on 10 years since I'm convinced it started. At this point, she's still dressing and showering by herself. She can still read and comprehend easy things. She can still kind of write her name. She feeds herself fine. She needs a lot of reminders though for medications, where she is, what year/day it is, and such. She's stubborn, irritated, and frustrated that she knows there is no cure, but we can't leave her alone as she wanders, so she has caregivers and that drives the independent part of her crazy.
That is awfully fast. Have they ruled out any other physical reasons for her decline? 

My mother is 87 and first started “word searching” around five years ago. Three years ago she started complaining that her finances were too complicated, and her boyfriend got her set up on autopay and sort of kept an eye on things, but we didn’t realize how bad it was until she started having delusions and thinking that there were men coming  into her apartment and stealing things. 

Now she has no concept of time or place and can’t manage any of her responsibilities. We have 24 hour caregivers living there and they had to put a lock on the door so she won’t go wandering in the hallway. She still can handle showering and going to the toilet but I’m not sure how good a job she’s doing, and her makeup looks like clown makeup now. 

So the progression of your MIL does seem awfully quick. Get her checked out again thoroughly for the possibility of mini strokes, nutritional deficiencies, UTI’s, etc.
I highly recommend Dr. Dale Bredesen's book The End of Alzheimer's. Here's an in-depth interview on his work with further info below: [https://www.foundmyfitness.com/episodes/dale-bredesen](https://www.foundmyfitness.com/episodes/dale-bredesen)
Progression of your MIL seems extremely fast. I would suggest she is checked for urinary tract infection, a frequent cause for deteriorating simptoms.
My grandpa started developing dementia at age 89 and it escalated after his car accident and mistreatment in the hospital. He passed at 95. Around 93 he lost the ability to walk more than 50 ft at a time. He'd already become incontinent due to IBD and chronic urinary tract infections. At 94 he really started to lose the ability to communicate and also was forgetting how eat. He still knew that I was family and he was still able to enjoy some things. 95 was a bad year and it didn't last long. 

The progression of dementia can vary greatly from person to person. For some people it's slow with long plateaus at different stages. For others its sudden and fast.
My understanding and I could be wrong, is that early onset Alzheimer's seems to progress faster than when diagnosed later. My dad is in his 80's and his is pretty slow progressing. He also took part in a clinical trial which may or may not have helped a little plus we have him on all sorts of supplements. I do agree that she should be seen by her doctor to rule out other issues as well.
Yes it does seem rather quick compared to online research and other forums I have read. I hope your Dad is able to stay self sufficient for much longer for you and your family. Thank you.
Thank you for sharing. It’s all so tough on everyone involved isn’t it. Interesting that she seemed to pause in her symptoms while undergoing some changes to her medicine. Thank you again.
Thank you for your answer. My FIL has just seemed to finally accept the diagnosis in the past month & was previously not interested in anything to do with support groups etc. I’ll see if it’s possible to undergo another check for those possibilities - nutritional deficiencies would be a big one I imagine as she barely eats and sleeps a lot of the time (up to 14-16 hours now at a time overnight).
Thank you I will look into this!
Thank you I will suggest to look into this for her next appointment.
Thank you. You’re so right, it’s so different for everyone.
Yeah, a full endocrine work up seems like a good move.
