My dad had early onset and was similar to your dad in that he loved to yuk it up and goof around with kids. For the most part, people recognized something was up with him almost immediately when he was interacting with kids. My mom was almost always with him and could kind of mouth an apology and talked loudly to him when the situation arose in a calm and friendly voice that accentuated that he was not 100%. Just kind of agreeing and joking. I was always a little nervous like you. My best advice is to just sort of follow that playbook. Don't stifle him and deny him of something that gives him such joy and in reality is a trivial interaction. Do you have an ID bracelet in the event he gets lost or anything? It's of course not fool proof but it's another item to help draw attention to the fact that he isn't 100% and harmless. So sorry to hear about your dad but as time progresses, holding onto the little things that bring him joy is so vital and this is one of those. mediate but let him have that social interaction because it is healthy for him!
[deleted]
Maybe get him a baby doll, he may enjoy spending time with it and that will be his “child” to give attention to

I work on a special need unit with residents with dementia and baby dolls are really comforting to a lot of our residents. They love pushing them in strollers and making silly faces at them and taking naps with them.
Thanks for asking this question, I have the exact same issue with my mom. She has early on-set so if you looked at her I don't think you would immediately guess that she had dementia, and when she doesn't know when to stop interacting with a child I find it so difficult too. This is the most cruel illness imaginable, I cannot believe what we all have to go through
My Dad passed recently but up to last January, he maintained some independence, often walking alone in his neighbourhood. Like your Dad, mine always enjoyed interacting with kids. Whether neighbour kids, grand-nieces/-nephews, or great-grandkids, he always liked to make them laugh and kept a freezer full of popsicles for them.

Throughout the previous year, I too noticed his filter weaken. At an outdoor event he wanted to go and console a child pitching a fit (parents ignoring but nearby). I had to convince him that the child was just having a tantrum and he accepted. But that made me concerned about how he might behave when walking alone.

His loss of filter wasn’t limited to kids. He approached strangers more often to share an anecdote or comment on the weather. He had problems communicating and that just made it more awkward.

The challenge is one of balance. Your dad will lose his independence as the disease progresses so preserving his independence as long as is safe to do so is important. Some options:

1.	Make up a card (identifying his dementia and emergency contact numbers) for your dad to keep in his pocket, wallet, etc. If he does end up in a difficult situation and he is  able to remember, he can show the card to people. At worst, if the police are called, they will find the card soon enough.
2.	In addition to a card, you may consider a MedicAlert bracelet or similar. Ours (here in Canada) is coloured blue for easier identification. The bracelet can identify dementia.
3.	As time progresses, see about arranging a companion for your Dad. He can still feel his independence but the companion can be on-hand to redirect him should he miss the social cues with strangers. This can be a paid personal care worker or someone hired through a local senior support organization.
4.	If your Dad frequents some common places such as stores at a mall, you can drop by and talk to staff there, explaining your concerns. You’d be surprised how many folks are willing to help out or call if they have concerns.  If you are concerned about his judgement within his neighbourhood, write a short note about your concern and drop it in a few mailboxes, especially those that may be familiar, assuming you are comfortable with this.

The hardest part is the worry. For me, I worried about the possibility of a situation which resulted in my dad being confronted angrily and him not understanding it. Or worse, at some level, he would understand and feel shame for it.  If it helps, try to hold on to the idea that your dad’s independence while safe, will likely provide him with greater benefits than the risks of being perceived as socially inappropriate. In my case, this period was not long.

This disease is indeed horrible. Best wishes to you and your father.
Your dad sounds lovely. My mother does this too. I can imagine it must be much harder when it's a male parent doing this sort of thing because of people's suspicions. Just the other day I had to explain to my mum that she can't touch the head of every child she walks past but she didn't get it and continued. 

When she engages a child and is really enjoying the interaction we loiter, mouth apologies and take our cues from the body language of the parents and the small people themselves. But we also don't want to suck the joy unless it is necessary. 

I would say though, that if he is alone and someone ever does overreact and call the authorities it would be a good idea to have an ID bracelet or card. My mum keeps a card in her wallet that says she has dementia and has our phone numbers on it. But it's also pretty obvious she is not okay. A few years ago when she was more independent she was caught shoplifting a few times and banned from a few shops. When I went back to apologise to the managers they said they didn't call the police because it was obvious to them that she isn't well.
Yes, I do what your mom did, try to prevent it from getting too weird.

I've thought about an ID bracelet, if he'll wear it. Or a card in his wallet, which he always carries.
Thanks. He's in that middle ground where he's affected in some ways, but not so much that he has to be with someone full-time. He has independence still. I hate curtailing that, though yes, I know it's coming.
That's an idea for when he progresses more. Thanks.
Yep. It's awful. I'm terrified it'll happen to me, too.
Bless you. Yes, it's all exactly this. All of it.

I'm going to do the wallet card, for sure, and possibly the bracelet. If he'll wear it, we will see. And yes, eventually, the companion/care worker. I dread that, but I know it's coming.

Thank you for a lovely and thoughtful post. It's good to know I'm not alone.
Yes, I'm going to look at the wallet card for sure.

He doesn't touch them, that I have seen. He just likes to wave at them to get their attention and make silly faces and stuff. His favorite is to go to this one supermarket that has the little tiny shopping carts for the kids, he gets such a kick out of them. LOL. Or if we encounter some kids in the doctor's waiting room, he likes to give them magazines or books.
Same here, I worry about that a lot too. How long has your dad had Alzheimer's for now? Feel free to send me a private message any time.. misery loves company I guess!
We don't have an official Alzheimer's diagnosis because he has refused any testing. It's pretty clear he's got dementia, it's been about 2 years since we really noticed it. About a year ago his primary care doc labeled it "late-onset moderate dementia". He's 81, so it definitely is late-onset. I think the meds he's on have slowed it down a bit. I'm sure he's got several years in him still, his physical health is excellent and his side of the family tend to be long-timers who go well into their 90's.
Well he's lucky to have such a great support system around him, the fact that you're looking for advice and tips on Reddit is more than most, so I'm sure you'll help him make the best of this situation
