Adult diapers. The pull up kind. And there are medications for overactive bladder you can ask her doctor about.
[deleted]
Her doctor never mentioned anything about medications for overactive bladder?  You should definitely ask next time you are there.
Yes to diapers, protective washable pads for bed/ chairs can help too. Also, discuss pelvic floor pt with her and her doctor. If she’s had kids or not, muscle can weaken over time. Good luck.
Is she actually going or is it just the feeling of having to go my mother-in-law lost all bladder function about 5 years ago and now she is now permanently catheterized but she used to get the feeling of having to go a lot and then just a little bit would come out in the meantime liters of water were trapped in her bladder.
Depends and pads, or potty chair next to her chair. My mom has cancer so I've been going thru it too. She wants to go to a hospice home because the pee is too much physically for my dad and I. Sending you love!
Yes ask about Oxybutynin, it helps with the feeling of urgency and spasmodic incontinence. As for adult diapers, my grandma likes the always discreet best (if you have a Sam's membership, they have a nice store brand version). If her incontinence is bad enough you might also get her pads to go inside the diaper as an extra layer. Saves a lot of time in the bathroom if you just have her change that out instead of the whole shebang.
We went this direction as well. We get the fancy discreet ones. They're a little on the spendy side but it's what mom prefers
Thank you for your responses. I know she took something, but I don’t recall what it was at this time. It didn’t seem to be very effective. I will ask about Oxybutynin because I’m fairly certain she didn’t try that. I’ve been buying Tranquility pull-ups from Carewell.com with the booster pad at night. My Mom doesn’t have very many accidents, it’s the frequency that she needs to go the bathroom that’s the issue. I found the pull-ups and booster pads out of desperation when she used to wake me up to go to the bathroom. I knew I couldn’t take care of her without sleeping so the combination with of pull-ups, booster pads, and McKessen underpads saved me.
Thank you for your response. Not many accidents really, she calls me to go. It’s just sooooo often. The doctor has done multiple tests and assured me nothing is wrong. Yes, I’m probably going to need to trust her, I’m just so afraid of her breaking an elbow again as she has broken both on different occasions.
Thank you for your response. Yes, meds were given a while back but they seemed ineffective. Another poster mentioned a different one that I will ask about.
Thank you.
Thank you for your response. Your poor mother-in-law, I’m so sorry! She definitely goes each time, it just isn’t much. Sounds like a similar story.
