This situation is something the doctor will decide. There is a variety of meds out there, and what works for one patient doesn't work for another. Hopefully, the doctor is willing to try to help.
In my experience, docs don't like using things in the benzo class for older people because it can mess with memory issues or worsen them long-term. It's really lose-lose that way. The only thing my family has had some success with is seroquel. I'd ask about  trying a trial period of that
I’ve been working in the dementia care field for a decade now and the one thing I can say with absolute certainty is that sundowning behaviours (hiding, hoarding, restlessness, anxiousness, agitation, repetitive behaviours etc...) cannot be treated with medications. Behaviour support strategies need to be applied by the care workers to help ease your moms anxiousness. A consistent routine, as well as meaningful engaging programs need to be implemented to distract and redirect. I would talk to the manager at your mothers home and see if they can send a referral to a behavioural support team to come in and assist with implementing these strategies. Also, it might be time to take the phone out of her room- it can sometimes be a source of agitation.
Is she already on anti-anxiety meds? If it's the GP not wanting to overmedicate, can you get a referral to a psychiatrist? Often, GPs don't want to spend the time following up and tuning medication and doses for mental health issues, they want to prescribe a cure or handle chronic physical conditions. Psychiatrists are better able to work out a way to handle anxiety.
[deleted]
In my experience benzos aren’t typically used in people with dementia. Something like seroquel can be used at bedtime to help with sleep and anxiety, but ultimately it will be up to her doctor.
It's highly variable as people respond differently to medication. Your mother should be seeing a Geriatric Psychiatrist for this and if there is not one available, a general Psychiatrist should be able to help.
Actually, what works for us is CBD with my mother in law.
Melatonin can be helpful and doctors aren't typically resistant to it.
Benzos can sometimes have an idiosyncratic effect in those with dementia. It would take a little time to see what works for her. Sometimes something like a mood stabilizer works. A lot of people in LTC are on gabapentin.
Seroquel (generic name quetiapine) is also what they've given my mom
Benzos also greatly increase the risk of falls, which can lead to hospitalization, broken hips/bones, and overall increased mortality.
She only has a cell, and calling people is the main activity in her life.  My brothers and I have considered canceling her cell but so far I've decided against it.  She would freak out if she couldn't make calls and would not understand/accept it.  I also fear the nightmare she would cause for the staff at the care home, demanding to use their office phone, etc.  I really fear that her behavior could get her kicked out.  And I generally feel terrible that she makes life so difficult for staff and other residents.
She is on an antidepressant, but nothing right now for anxiety.  She does take Trazadone as a sleep aid but that's not til 8pm and she's already been sundowning for several hours at that point.  Finding her a psychiatrist and getting her there is a whole other battle I don't want to fight, and I don't really see the point.  This is clearly a common problem with the elderly, surely the GP knows something we could try?  This is just my frustration talking, I appreciate your comments.
ooh, that sounds good.  I will look into his more.  thank you.
that is a good idea.
At that point, then, you need to start looking into memory care facilities.  They are different than care homes in many ways.  Best of luck to you.
I finally, in desperation, emailed the GP demanding we get an RX for something to help me get my father to his appointments. The GP knows my father, knows he blows off appointments at the last minute (and had lectured me on that at one point, as if I could control him).  Next thing I knew we had the pharmacy calling to say his Rx was ready. He hasn't missed an appointment since. It's a short acting anti-anxiety med and helps him be more compliant about getting to doctor appointments. Just because it may be a common thing does not mean the GP will realize there is a need for some help. Ask your GP for an RX and a referral to a psychiatrist.
