There’s no telling about the progression and that’s the hardest part. Not knowing. I understand my mom started being aggressive when she was around 70. Hugs I hope someone has better answers. I’d look into a support group for yourself.
There are lots of things that can cause quick changes in capacity/behaviour. Big culprits are medicines that don't agree with one another, and urinary tract infections. Do you know if her doc checked these?
I’m not a doctor but have a small amount of experience with dementia and a big big trigger for decline can be stress. 

If she is forgetting whole shows right after watching there may have been other earlier signs that were missed. 

She however was probably aware that things weren’t right but definitely couldn’t figure it out, she might’ve just thought ‘that’s getting older’ 

With her awareness of something not being right and then having the doctor tell her she has dementia she probably got very emotional. 

Emotion is harder to forget and can have a really big effect on someone. 

My grandmother recently lost her best friend. She passed away and none of us knew and she instantly went into a decline. 

The week before I was talking to my sister about how clear she was, she was remembering things I had said earlier in the day, that certain people were coming over. The second she found out about her friend she went into overload.

She was asking if I was her grandson, she was asking my cousin if she was going to have children (she’s married and has two teenagers who are out 3-4 times a week). 

It was so sudden and so drastic and sometimes all it takes for a decline. 

Dementia sucks because people can be going along fine and on a nice plateau then all of a sudden they are in a decline and it can really seem like night and day. 


You gran is going to go through these declines and they happen fast or slow or sometimes it seems like over night. 

Get her mind off of things, go shopping, go to the cinema, anything she likes to do or has enjoyed that don’t take too much problem solving. 

It’s hard and she’s so happy you are there for her even if it doesn’t seem like it. 

It’s not going to get easier and I’m not saying that as a reprimand. Just prepare yourself that it won’t, it’s a horrible disease to watch it’s very confusing and can really take it’s toll on you. 

It’s going to happen fast and slow, sometimes overnight sometimes it takes months. Stay strong and take care of yourself.

DEMENTIA CARERS NEED CARE.
Thank you, I will look into it, right now I’ve got my fiancée whoes being a very strong and positive outlet for me to vent out my confusion and frustration with this situation.
Yes, she was taken to the emergency room the other night because she called my mom in the middle of the night telling her she thinks she accidentally overdosed on her medication, in the ER they had just about everything tested, and outside of her memory loss and personality changes she’s perfectly healthy.
That’s awesome probably all you need. It’s incredibly hard but you can get through it. I watched the documentary about Glen Campbell and how his wife cared for him as he declined.
