Call senior services in her location and explain the situation. They will point you to the right resources and the social workers can help her and you make the best decisions.
When someone refuses to let family help but is at a point that is clearly unsafe, I think the only way to intervene is to pursue legal guardianship or to get authorities involved. 

I would first contact attorneys in your area that specialize in elder law just to gather information. You or another family member may be able to get a court to appoint a legal guardian for your grandmother, IF the court finds that your grandma no longer has the capacity to make decisions for herself. Legal guardianship would give the guardian the authority to make decisions for your grandma even if she disagrees with them (as opposed to POA, which does give someone the ability to make certain financial/legal decisions for your grandma, but can be revoked by your grandma at any time and therefore is not applicable in the case where help/change is being refused.) Guardianship requires that the person in question is found UNABLE to make decisions for themselves... If they are found to be mentally capable enough to make decisions and legitimately understand the resulting consequences (even if they refuse to make GOOD decisions for themselves), then guardianship will not be approved. The process to gain guardianship is expensive (medical evaluations, legal fees, etc.) and time consuming... but it wouldn’t hurt to contact an elder attorney to see if they think it would even be a viable option in your situation. 

If your family does pursue legal guardianship, be sure that the person being proposed as guardian is very trustworthy... they will have full control over all decisions for your grandma (including any/all financial assets she has). You don’t want someone who would take advantage of the situation to financially benefit themselves. Guardianship is only approved in cases where an individual is UNABLE to make their own decisions precisely because of this risk of abuse/misuse of power.

I would also consider contacting Adult Protective Services for your area to try to set up a home visit. If they think her living situation warrants intervention but your grandma refuses to cooperate, they will contact the appropriate authorities (e.g. your local code enforcement office, as your grandma’s house likely violates numerous fire/health/safety codes). Code enforcement can legally require your grandma to remedy whatever violations they find. The downside to this approach is that if she is so obstinate that she refuses to change even once code enforcement is involved, they can declare the house to be uninhabitable due to the health/safety issues. In this case your grandmother would be forced to move out, and then either live with family or face homelessness. (Note: they generally only do this after giving ample time for the violations to be remedied... they want people to stay in their homes, but have the authority to evict occupants and condemn the house if it is unsafe and no attempts are being made to make it safe.) 

In either case, I’m sure your grandma will be very upset about having her autonomy taken away. Just keep in mind that you are doing this because it is in her best interest, and because you love her (even if she doesn’t recognize it).  

I’m sorry you and your family are having to deal with this difficult situation :(
How many dogs does she have? Call animal control to have them removed, if possible. The first thing on my list would be to try and get those animals out of there. She is creating an unsafe living situation for herself and for the animals. It won't solve all of the problems but it will make her living situation like 80% better, I bet.
In a similar situation.   After trying for twenty years, distancing myself has become the only viable solution, although it is not pain free.
Call adult protective services
You should call the police/EMS and have her evaluated for a psych hold.  I work/live in a different state than you  but she sounds like she falls under the category of gravely disabled and is unable to care for herself. I have absolutely taken an elderly person out of such a situation in my line of work, because she was obviously altered. Social services and the police have the authority to involuntarily commit her. This may be your best option to pursue.
Save yourself and stay away. I wouldn't normally recommend this, but this is nothing but heartache and pain for you if you try to fix him. Good luck.
[deleted]
I'm very sorry to hear that.  From what you described, it sounds like they are not doing their job if they are ignoring her living conditions.  Is there a way to bump this up the chain to the social worker's supervisor that was originally on the case?  Beyond that, the only other thing I would suggest is keep calling the ambulance and police until they do do something about it.  I've run on patients like this and sometimes the best way is get her transported to the hospital for something and then talk with the case manager at the hospital. Beyond that, there sometimes is little else one can do with an adult that is being stubborn.
