I've tried Carnation Instant Breakfast with her. Regular milk and chocolate almond milk. They didn't go over well, surprising because she loves a fast-food milkshake.

It's so tough, one moment she's my MIL, and the next she's a petulant child.
There are loads of possibilities I think. Maybe yogurt and granola, or a breakfast sandwich made the night before? Or overnight oats (like porridge/oatmeal but no need to microwave) or various sort of cereal if you think she could add the milk herself, or failing that you can get cereal bars/granola bars or healthy breakfast biscuits (cookies). Or a smoothie or milkshake might be an option? Maybe try googling 'breakfast on the go' for easy buy options in your country. I make my mum healthy, low sugar flapjacks (the British meaning is totally different from the American meaning, I think in the US a flapjack is a kind of pancake but in the UK it's a kind of soft granola bar made with oats and honey or sugar and sometimes fruit)
Look for healthy kids snacks. Fruit leather, fruit cups. 

Fruit or yogurt in squeeze pouches. In Australia you can get yogurt mixed with oats in squeeze pouches. I would love to get that in America. 

Oatmeal single serve cups. Add water from the tap. Put in the microwave.
Jimmy Dean makes bfast sandwiches. But she will need to take it out of the box, unwrap and nuke. In the same vein you can make these really easy the night or two before, english muffin, cheese, egg, thin slive of ham or a couple strips of bacon. then all she has to do is take one from the frdge, put it on a plate and nuke it. 

Or make up som little breakfast burritos, keep em covered in a cakepan in the fridge...jyst remove lid and nuke. 

Alt set her up with a breakfast bowl the night before....scrambles eggs, some ham bits and some cheese. Clingwrap on to. she just has to remove the clingwrap and nuke it. 

If she likes mashed taters make some lumpy taters and mix in a lil onion and  bell pepper and some bacon or ham or crumbled beef. 

alt a belgian waffle, butter it the night before, uncover and nuke,

If she can remove saran wrap from a bowl then it can be easily staged. If not then look for steamer bags. Buddy of mine used em to bring his lunch. they self ventilate and steam the food so it gets warm and fresh. Do have to open those,
How about the world of mall substitute shakes? Soylent, joylent, keto-chow etc. IMO keto-chow was the best tasting by far but the prep-n-wait killed me.
Fruit on the table in a bowl?  Breakfast muffins like blueberry, bran, cranberry.  Grab a set from your local bakery and find out which ones freeze the best.  Take one out of the freezer every night while you brush your teeth: on a plate in the fridge: there ya go, MIL.  Same for cream of wheat or oatmeal, whichever she prefers: ready in a bowl in the fridge at her eye-level (same for individual yogurt cups).  

That said, it's time to talk to her PCP about sleep meds.  Keeping her sleep schedule as routine as possible is absolutely essential for the household.
My MIL loves muffins and banana bread. To make it healthier, I'll make it with 50/50 whole wheat flour which I think makes her more regular...
Please reconsider anything that needs toasting! One minute they can get the whole concept then a piece of toast gets stuck and in goes a knife or fingers. Really not a good option - and dont ask me how I know. Muesli (granola.) Yoghurt, fruit cups or even get canned creamed rice or little desserts that she can open safely. Remember the microwave can be ok today but tomorrow it could be an issue.
r/mealprep and /r/MealPrepSunday 

Lots of make ahead warm up in microwave ideas there.  

Bacon and eggs?  I cook bacon in the oven, before it's crispy, pull it out and put in a muffin pan, one piece in each hole.  Then crack an egg in each hole, salt, pepper, back in the oven.  About 12-15 minutes (watch them) I pull them out and put them in containers.  Two of those is a breakfast.  They heat up in less than a minute and you can eat them with only a fork.
Could it be the food flavours have changed for her? My Grandpa used to tell us some of what he ate tasted like other things, for instance cooked white rice tastes like ketchup to him now so he never eats it. He used to eat piles of things on rice, so that was a huge change.
Me again. Thanks for getting my brain running on the right track. I was stuck in a discouraging rut. 

I think I'm going to make quiche (she likes bacon and cheese). If it's sliced (or individual sized) she can take one, and have it warm or cold.

That's the kick I needed. Time to channel my inner Julia Child!
I like the idea of a breakfast bar, thanks. I'll look for recipes that can work cold or warmed up. I forgot about overnight oats, they can also be heated up is she's capable. Both seem like good possibilities.

Milkshakes (Carnation Instant Breakfast) did not work for her.

The first two ought to work. One serving in a bowl/plate that she can heat up if she's able.

Thanks again.
Except for the oatmeal, you have her taste down pat. Kid snacks are her thing! I'm going to try grits (~cream of wheat), but I'll need to add the water the night before.

BTW, I'd eat oats and yogurt for breakfast, but last time I was in Australia, I think all we had was VB for brekky.
Thank you. I forgot about the Jimmy Dean sandwiches. She can't open the box and unwrap them, but I can! Going to wrap them in paper towel (per the directions) and leave them in the fridge/freezer with a Post-It saying how to cook it. I'm certain she'll like them.

I also like the idea of the breakfast bowl. I have the right-size nuclear containers with lids, so even if she forgets to remove it, it won't matter too much. Taters she loves. Tater tots even more (she's a Southern Gal).

Above all, thank you for using "staged". I don't want her to have a shapeless mound of gruel, and I always set a full set of flatware knowing she'll use only the fork. I want her 5 or 7 AM breakfast, though alone, to be as elegant as she is.
She had a good day tonight, and she said she like muffins. Thank you. She won't eat the loose fruit, but I found out she will eat grits (cream of wheat)!

We gradually took her off most of her meds this year. Her previous PCP had her on ~15 daily, with her new PCP we're down to 6. I'd rather have her awake a couple times in the early morning than in a fog all day. The being awake and hungry at 5 AM isn't so bad, it's her not being able to feed herself that's heartbreaking.

Gonna try grits this week. (Y'all)
OMG! I had no idea Ma liked banana bread. I have a freezer full of bananas for the year I start making smoothies for breakfast. And, I have a bag of whole wheat flour from when I rediscovered the breadmaker (brickmaker) a month ago. This is definately on the menu this week. Thanks for the suggestion!
I agree. The toaster is too complicated for her. I think she can wait a minute for the microwave (and it's loud), but she'd wander away and forget about the toaster. I'm going to try grits in lieu of creamed rice. Thanks for the suggestion!
Nope. Ma has the culinary tastes of a teenager who just received their allowance. Always has. Fast food, chips, candy, soda... As she gradually needs softer foods, I'm adding more mashed potatoes and mac-and-cheese to replace the fried chicken.
You can make crustless quiche in greased muffin tins. It's basically a very eggy muffin. Heated or unheated they taste breakfasty and you don't even have to worry about slicing it. PM me if you want a recipe.
Great idea!! Hope it goes well.
For my mom, I leave a serving in the microwave with the correct cook time and power level for heating already punched in so all she has to do is hit "start." (Labeled big and bright with a piece of tape.) She is starting to lose her ability to do even this but for a couple of years it worked well for the early morning snacks. Depending on the item, I pop it in just before bed (for oatmeal) or during an overnight toilet trip (for more perishable items.) Lately, she's been on a yogurt kick, so that's relatively easy for me.
  My Dad is 93 and has had a stroke and has tremors. he is very independent-minded even tho most things he can no longer do. Breakfast used to be a disaster for him. he has oatmeal and hot cocoa and a danish. The hot water was from the coffee machine but taking it or the bowl from the counter to the table he spilt half. Opening packages he spills a bit. Stirring his hot cocoa is difficult at best. 
I put the coffee machine on the kitchen table and before bed every night set up breakfast and at this point if I forget he wont do it. If I get out of the shower before hes in the kitchen I fix his breakfast. It just takes a little effort for me but I think it is a real help to him. 
 Love tatertots also, they make here a hashbrown that comes frozen that the same crispiness. Dad likes me because theyre easy to hold and eat. He has hell cutting things with a knife and using a fork is dificult tho doable and the bread in sadnwiches makes him choke a bit. 
 Other thing thats good is steak fingers and chcken fried steak frozen in the bag. Things that are precooked like sausage/brats might be good. As long as she can heat em up in the microwave shes golden. 
Does my heart good to see you taking care of her and how much you love her. My mom passed at 93 a year and a half ago. I was looking for superglue in the kitchen late last night and came across a drawer of her things I hadnt cleaned out before. Among other things it caused me to reflect on some things ive read on reddit. there are too many selfish and cold-hearted people who abandon their parents and grandparents, so good for you. give your elegant lady a hug for me, take care.
That is excellent!  Good job getting proactive about ways to make the new situation work for you.  Hey, grits may be one of those things you can make ahead, portion, and then let defrost overnight so it's ready for her when she gets up and sooooo much less trouble for you. 

Come to think of it, grits sounds good.  I'm hungry... do I have any grits?  I should go make grits!  Scuse me!
We cut all of those things at hour house when me moved my mother in law with us.
I do something similar but I add a crust on the bottom, it's super easy and makes individual portions!
Yup. Quiche is on the plan for this week. She said she likes them warm, so I'm going to try baking one this week and see how it works. I know she likes biscuits (in the US they're bisciuts, elsewhere, I don't know, English muffin-sized puff pastry?) so there may be an biscuit top and bottom. She also said she can use the microwave. (fingers crossed)
Thanks, I'm going to try the microwave trick on pre-setting it. Ma doesn't like oatmeal or yogurt, but she does like grits (cream of wheat?). It should work the same.
Good luck! I use grits, Maypo, Cream of Wheat, Cream of Rice, Grape Nuts -- all the hot cereals --  because we have a dentition problem to deal with, as well. I hope it works out for you because the odd hours can be so tiring!!

I'm up putting some in the microwave, right now.
