First off , my sympathies for your situation, I'm in a similar position with my father (but sadly he's further along the dementia spectrum) .

So the first thing as you properly surmised ,is that your dad training your mom to "do better" on the clock face test, is a fruitless effort, I know you understand that, so you need to try and explain to him, instead he should be preparing his and her lifestyle for the upcoming challenges, reassure him that while difficult, it's doable and that a little bit of preparation now will go a long way.

By preparation, I mean getting all the legal and financial paperwork out of the way, wills, power of attorneys (health), getting an inventory of all financial accounts etc.  I know all this may be an uncomfortable conversation, but rest assure him, it will free them up to focus on enjoying more time together and less stress about these items, especially later. Delaying doing this may increase stress and costs as later in the disease your mom might not legally be able to sign anything.

Next it seems like your mom is still in the early stages of this disease, if so then definitely do things like family vacation or some other bucket list item your parents may have wanted to do earlier rather than later. In other words try to make a few more memories , before it's no longer possible.

The lewy body disease progression is very different for everyone, so take my next advice with that caveat.  The usual life expectancy for someone diagnosed is between 3-7 years but may be longer if the disease progresses slowly. A lot depends on the person , their age,other health issues etc. But realistically you have about 2 marginally good years where the person can still function relatively normally then at some point they will have too much of a cogitive deficit to do much on their own ,it's usually at this point when they go into assisted living (this is where. I am now with my parent).

From there take it day by day, as you may have heard this is such a devastating disease not just to the person but to the family, because we are faced with daily struggles of caring for that person, and it doesn't get easier. It's very taxing emotionally, be strong, tell your dad to be strong for the both of them, and remember to have him reach out for help when he needs it. Best of luck .
My mother has LBD, and I'm also a researcher in a different area of healthcare.  I would encourage your dad to do cognitive activities (e.g. puzzles) with your mom, more to keep her engaged than to expect a large effect on disease progression.  It's actually not in your mom's best interest to practice the MMSE, as doing so may hide actual declines in your mom's cognition.  You want the MMSE to reflect the actual state of cognition so that the most appropriate level of care can be given.  Also, the doctor is likely considering the MMSE results as only part of the assessment, and is also including your dad's perspective on things.
Yeah, I can relate to this. My dad was away working for the first two years that my mum really started to decline (he was working somewhere really dangerous so she couldn't be with him or see him that often) and when he got back he set about trying to make her do crosswords and sudoku and writing exercises to 'exercise her brain'. He was using the 'if you don't use it, you lose it' principle. He still does it now, and tries to get me to help him with it. He gets upset if I let her watch nature documentaries on TV, even though she loves them. I don't know if he is right or wrong but I would prefer her to just do things that make her happy.
Thanks.  Everything related to housing, financials, preparation, etc. has been taken well care of.   I'm just not sure my father will ever be emotional and mentally prepared.
I agree, my mum has mixed dementia and on her last consultation visit the idiot doctor was practically giving her the answers so her score came out better! Doesnt help anybody in the long run as it doesnt give a true indication of the rate of deterioration.
My mom is an avid quilter, which is a quite detail-oriented hobby (she has been making quilts for over 30 years).  Although she is an avid reader, she is not much into puzzles.  However, I think that would be activity for both my parents  to do together and will suggest this to my father.
