My grandfather had it so we were aware of what to look for. We realized something was wrong when the water and internet were shut off a couple of times in a row. My dad always sat down at the table once a month to pay the bills-all by mailing a check. 

Also he began experiencing issues at work and they wouldnt hire him for the following year without a mental health evaluation.

My mom never did any of the financials  before, but has since taken over. 

The hardest part was the denial in my mom. She attributes his behaviors to old age. She accepts his diagnosis and even though he seems to be entering the middle stages of it, my mom still doesnt think its "that bad"


Theres a professional named Teepa Snow. She has some great videos on YouTube about the early signs as well.
My mom had always seemed different than other people, personality and behavior wise. When I was in high school though, it seemed to turn more pronounced. She fixated on things and lectured all the time. You could be talking about the weather or something you watched on tv, and she would always seem to take the conversation and turn it into a rant about how her employer screwed her over.

I went off to college and wasn’t around her much for a few years. When I moved back closer to them after graduating, I noticed little things popping up. She would tell me I could go when the light was red or another car was coming. She didn’t quite recognize herself in my brother’s wedding videos.

On my 30th bday, she got angry over something. My dad went with me to run errands and when we came back, she was packing up her car saying she was leaving. 

She had lived in So Cal for most of her life. She freaked out when we were driving back from Reno, telling me I was going the wrong way on the 405.

We finally had to face it when she got angry at my dad for not cutting down the tree (they were renting at the time) in their front yard, because the birds were crapping on her car. She took the dog and told my dad “she was going home.” 24 hours later we finally get a call she was found in some remote part of Nor Cal, 6 hours from where they lived, wandering around saying she lost my dad and me in the snow (it was August). 

She had always had moments when her temper would flare at some minor thing. But after this incident, it seemed she would have these moments where she would just get angry and spout nonsense. We would try to reason with her and calm her down, but nothing would work except her locking herself in her room for a little while. She would then come out and act as if nothing had happened. 

She also slowly started talking more and more gibberish/word salad. She would say words, but they wouldn’t mean anything.

She was finally diagnosed at 65. She’s 70 now. It’s been a rough road.
My mom went to visit my sister and there was a detour on the road back, and she was confused and instead of driving home, just drove and drove and drove.  Police were looking for her. Found her four hours away from our house when she was pulled over. Next day we took her to the doctor  :(
A neurologist confirmed it after my Dad had several rough months of strange symptoms. The first signs were angry and sad outbursts and getting lost on his way home from work. He was in his mid-fifty’s when diagnosed and I was 19.
They changed my mom's job routines and she couldn't keep up things started getting worse so we took her to the Dr. She was 54
There were warning signs. The first thing, apart from slight scattiness, was total loss of motivation. Depression was diagnosed but it didn't improve. When I KNEW, in my bones, was when she rang me and asked me if I was ready to go.
 I said, 'go where?' 
She said, 'to the beach'. 
It was february, snowing, and I was at work. But my family all insisted she was fine. 

We had some scary incidents where she didn't show up when we had plans and we went to the house and found her deeply asleep and, when she woke up, totally disorientated. We actually took her to hospital one time because she was so deeply confused. They asked her what year it was and she said 'there's a 7 in it... 1907' (it was 2017). They asked her who the Prime Minister was and she said 'Margaret Thatcher' (who left office in 1990). Then she was arrested for shoplifting and the police didn't take further action because they could see she 'wasn't right in the head'. 
We got the diagnosis not long after that. They diagnosed 'dementia not otherwise specified' then rang us back that night to say it was Alzheimer's. I'd known for years of course, but I still felt that nasty little bolt of ice. She was 64 at the time and is now 66. She can be pretty difficult, but she is an absolute delight in so many ways, so funny and so sweet. She is a lot like a toddler now: vulnerable, easily amused, silly, but with wisdom and intelligence and fierce pride, and doesn't like to be told what to do.
Got mother in law  a brain scan back in December 2018 to confirm why she had being acting odd for at least 6 months. Signs were starting to show up a couple of years prior, and I'm guessing this had something to do with she falling an breaking a leg about 4 or 5 years ago. She is 72 now.
My dad kept going to the doctor because his brain "felt odd". They did bloodwork, MRI's, etc and couldn't come up with a diagnosis for a couple of years. He continued to function decently during this time and neither I nor my mom suspected Alzheimer's due to my father's high intelligence, general introverted nature and overall tendency to tell the same stories and jokes at the time. 

One day, one of his coworkers noticed that he was coming up with new solutions to the same problems over and over without realizing he had already solved them. He saw a neurologist after that, who diagnosed him.  

I was 26, he was 61. He deteriorated fairly rapidly after that.
October 2009. He was 69, kept forgetting things. He was diagnosed early so he's been on meds since then. 
He's 79 now, he's had it for 10yrs now, under hospice care now and bedridden.  They have told me 6 mos or less. He's been on meds since the diagnosis.  He's hard to handle at times now, even in bed. The agitation is getting worse, even with him on meds. They just put him on another med but it hasn't kicked in yet. He's also on Ativan 1mg/4hrs but that's going to have to be increased to 2mg soon. He throws all his cover in the floor, pulls off his disposable underwear and the disposable pads every 10- 15 minutes th6last few days and it's driving me crazy. It's a lot worse on the caregiver than the patient,  anybody will tell you that.
If you're suspecting that your family member has it, have them evaluated by a neurologist that specializes in Alzheimer's.  Get them on the meds as soon as you can. 
Good luck.
1. Slowly accumulating things that weren't normal, culminating in Mom running into a postal vehicle on the side of road, knocking her side mirror off, and not noticing, at all. She did it close to home so she pulled into driveway and saw postal guy freaking out a couple houses down and actually walked back to him and asked him if someone had hit-and-run on him... he was like, "Lady, seriously, you just did!" She didn't believe him. Even when dad showed her the matching damage on her car. Then paranoid delusions about money and Dad started, that's when he finally took her to a doctor, but THAT was a process getting her to go, then getting her not to keep cancelling tests when they called to confirm, and then getting her to go to neurologist was even harder. Basically took about six months of really knowing this was BAD before getting diagnosis of Lewy Body Dementia.
2. In retrospect my family sees the earliest signs going back about ten years. She used to love traveling to visit me, then just stopped wanting to travel at all. She stopped doing all the side activities she used to enjoy. She started getting more easily distracted and confused. Her normal worry-wart behavior got a tad darker in retrospect. Normal every day tasks, she started complaining about how hard and stressful they were. Any computer update where a box or tool moved sent her into practical hysterics. She can no longer use a computer in any capacity at this point.
3. She was 67 on official diagnosis, I was 40, my brother 34. We are pretty sure it started around age 55-57 though, but again, that's only through the lens of hindsight. All the little things were attributed to other reasons before we **knew**.
My mother had always been somewhat of a hoarder, just not like you see in TV Shows. Though maybe a small bit like that within her bedroom. She was starting to have money issues and her job was making a case against her because of her being unable to work properly.(Talent Payroll) 

In 2016 she was diagnosed when she returned from Hawaii with my grandmother in tow as she wasn't doing great. When she told me she was leaving to go take care of grandma, a few years prior to 2016, she basically packed a bag to go and left her house for sale with a realtor and all the stuff in it, including her 2 cats.  That fell into my lap.

In 2016, she's diagnosed, which we all kind of already knew. It's a challenge I never expected to run into.

She's 61 and I'm 36.
85. She drove across the state and almost into the next one because she forgot how to get home.
My grandfather just got diagnosed, I was told rather casually at breakfast yesterday. He's always been rather forgetful, but a while ago my grandmother had to call the police because he had gone out to the beach (45 minute drive away) in the morning and it was becoming evening, the police found him, and apparently he had gotten really lost. He still refused to get help to get home, and was out for another few hours before finally getting home. That is his favourite beach spot and he has been there many times before.
My dad has Alzheimer’s & has had it for a decade now. I was just wondering what other people’s stories were.
Just be prepared for the worse, especially until the meds get regulated. They just had to increase Sam's due to agitation.......
The closer to the end they get, the worse they get, until it's their time, then they're kinda comatose.....
