Hi. I work as an activity coordinator in a dementia unit in assisted living. It can certainly be a challenge to find engaging activities! I don't know where your grandma is mentally but here are a few ideas for you. I hope they help.

Exercise: we typically start all our mornings with seated exercises. There are some great videos on YouTube of seated exercise videos. My residents typically like the slow paced ones. They enjoy seated yoga, Tai chi, some more active exercise videos. HASfit has some decent seated ones. We have also done seated Zumba. If she likes dancing she may enjoy that even if it's hard to follow. If you do it with her she can follow you better than following the tv because you can "coach" her. If she's mobile, walks are great. Take her for a walk around the block. The exercise, fresh air, and change of scenery will do wonders. If she is in a wheelchair, you can push her around the neighborhood for a change of pace also.

Word games: We do a lot of word games... A favorite is "Words that begin with... (Pick a letter)" See how many words you both can come up with in a set amount of time. It sounds childish but you'd be surprised with how much you both will think and the words you can come up with. Another good one is "word in a word." Choose a large word and see how many words she can make out of the letters. This one may be too much of a challenge for her depending on where she is. Another great one is name 100 (or any number really). Pick a subject (for example, animals) and see how many you both can come up with. 

Reminiscing: get some pictures of you both and some other loves ones and make a scrapbook. You can either make it yourself and give it to her or make it together. I would label the people in the pictures so she's never embarrassed if she can't place them. You can go through the book together and talk about the people and places in the pictures. You can also ask her what seems like random questions to spark memories. She probably would love to tell you stories about her childhood, special holidays or vacations, etc.

Simplified board games: We are really into Yahtzee right now. Instead of keeping score we just check off when we achieve whatever goal and the first to check all the boxes win. It's all luck based and you can help her decide which dice to keep. Another good one is concentration/memory. You will have to fudge this a bit and not find a lot of matches for yourself and reveal a lot but she will probably feel pretty good when she finds them. Uno is also good if you take out all the extra cards (reverse, +2, skip, etc.) Just make it about matching colors and numbers. 

Art projects: Pinterest is an awesome resource for this. Look up sensory art projects, projects for seniors, and projects for young children. My residents like do projects with a purpose. For example, making decorations. If you say "I really need help making xyz for whatever reason" she may be more interested in doing it. We've done paper weaving, abstract pieces/process art, tissue paper flowers, decorations for different holidays. Try different mediums. Clay is a lot of fun. We made clay beads and then painted them another day to make bracelets and keychains. Coloring pages are great too because it takes the pressure off of them to be perfect. They can be creative by choosing colors and such without having to choose/draw the subject. 

Baking: If she liked the pie she may like doing other stuff too. This can be hit or miss depending on the day and recipe but it's really good for her. It can boost self esteem, gives her a sense of purpose, and its great for her senses. She can taste and smell the different ingredients. She can knead the dough or stir different textures. Cookies are good because she can roll the dough in her hands. Frosting cupcakes also goes over pretty well. You can also try cooking. I personally find baking more satisfying but she may like cooking veggies or stews or whatever better.

Chores: have her help out around the house. Sweeping, folding towels, setting the table, etc. It will help give a sense of purpose and independence. If you have a green thumb, have some potted plants around the house that she can water. 

Outings: Get her out of the house if possible. Go for a scenic ride. Check out what's going on at the local parks, see what decorations are up, go to the beach/lake etc. It may spark memories and it's good to see something new. See if there are any art galleries or museums around that you can check out. Go to the library or bookstore and peruse the books. She may not be able to comprehend novels anymore, but it's still fun to judge a book by its cover. Go out to a simple lunch or out to get a cup of coffee/tea. Even grocery shopping. Your errands may take 3x longer but she may enjoy it. I would avoid being gone all day. Maybe just a few hours as she will lose interest or possible get anxious or tired.

Tv: I try not to use the tv often but sometimes its good to sit down and watch reruns of a show she enjoyed a long time ago. I love Lucy or the Carol Burnett show and many others are often on YouTube. Even if she can't understand it fully anymore it will be familiar. She will also follow your cues. Laugh a little too hard, make comments about the characters. Be a moviegoers worst nightmare. She will follow your lead. Nature documentaries have also been a huge hit for my residents. It could be learning about animals or other countries and cultures and they love it. They are learning something new and not expected to follow a plot. They are also visually beautiful. Again I would make comments about it while watching. "Omg I never knew that! Did you?" Or "wow! That's so beautiful! Have you ever seen a mountain like that?!" Etc

Singing: don't be embarrassed to put on the music, sing your heart out and dance. Sometimes you need Elvis, Motown or other oldies that are great to dance to. Sometimes it's too much. If that's too much for the day, sing old songs Acapella or play acoustic songs and sing along quietly. Hold her hand and sway it to the beat of the music. If she starts swaying her hand or tapping her toes, count that as a win. 

Like I said, this may not help at all because I don't know your grandma but figured I'd try. Also, don't be afraid to just sit and hold her hand and tell her what's going on in your life. She wants to know and you can repeat the same stories over and over and she won't get bored of you.
The only things that work for us are: sweeping, listening to music, watching an old movie, and playing with our dogs in the yard. She spends hours a day just sitting, seeming bored, but silent. I’ve offered dozens of activities, she turns everything down.
There's so much amazing advice here already, I have little to add. My mum likes watching TED talks and short comedy videos. She likes to look at magazines or books with pictures in (she has tons of art history books and cook books that are good for this), she will do adult colouring books but gets bored quickly. Getting the photo albums out is always a good activity that keeps her busy for a while. She also likes to go thtough the house and pick things up and move them. At the moment she will spend ages just enjoying the Christmas decorations. She will also sit in front of whatever is on TV without complaining but she particularly likes nature documentaries. 

But getting her out of the house is key. She goes to an over 50s yoga class, a couple of different dementia poetry workshops and a sensory workshop every two weeks at Hampton Court. We also take her to art galleries and museums about once a week. There's also an organisation here in the UK called the National Trust where you can visit stately homes, which she loves doing too. She is early into Stage 6 now but she seems pretty happy much of the time (with periods of rage and anxiety of course). 

Think about what your Grandma enjoyed in her prime and find ways to make it accessible for her now?
Is she religious?  The only things my grandmother enjoys to do now are related to religion: reading simple religious texts, praying with the TV, going to the church.
My mom doesn’t like TV either, but she loves dogs, so I sometimes put on a TV station that shows pets doing cute things. That’s usually good for an hour. My mom also liked puzzles until recently.
I thought of two other things. My mom likes to feel useful, so sometimes she helps me fold laundry or do prep work for cooking, like cutting up vegetables, shelling peas or other things like that.
  I'm a little angry with Merriam-Webster! What does it mean when someone calls you "demented"? According to the dictionary, Demented: ADJECTIVE. 1. suffering from dementia. (So far, I'm okay with that). *synonyms:* unbalanced, mentally ill, deranged, crazed, distracted, unhinged, insane, mad, mad as a hatter, etc. And, sadly, the UK isn't much help: *informal. BRITISH.* driven to behave irrationally due to anger, distress, or excitement. "a demented, dangerous, and sadistic Mafioso". *synonyms:* mad, insane, deranged, out of one's mind, crazed, lunatic, unbalanced, etc. Well, worldwide dictionaries, **I HAVE dementia**. I am NOT, for the most part, a lunatic, crazed, unbalanced, insane or an ax murderer. Yes, I like the Godfather trilogy, but that does not make me a sadistic Mafioso! I am a person with dementia. It sucks. But I am NOT demented. Choose your words wisely, unlike Merriam-Webster.  For activities, remember: We are still US. Whatever your grandma used to enjoy, she probably still does. Flowers, looking through magazines, being creative through art or music or dance. Listening to her favorite music or watching her favorite movies (like The Godfather). Cooking. Yes, some of those activities require supervision depending on her stage of dementia, but doing the things she used to enjoy will stimulate her brain activity and slow the progression. I still enjoy doing medical research, gardening and even playing the piano. I'm not as good as it as I used to be and some days are better than others, but it's about the journey....not the destination.
This was such a kind, thought out, thorough, and profoundly insightful response! I used to work in nursing and saw many burn out and lose empathy in the process, but you clearly have so much love for people and work so hard for their emotional well-being that I bet you're an amazing activity coordinator. I know it can be hard work and often thankless, but thank you so entirely much for doing what you do! I can't thank you enough for so many wonderful ideas which I'll be trying as many of these as possible to just bring a little joy in her life. Thank you so much <3
Yes to the sweeping! I ask my husband to swifter the house multiple times a day. Honestly, it is about the only chore he can do.
Sounds like she just enjoys calm quiet days much like my grandma. I've found that offering activities never works, you have to just spring it on her and give it purpose so she almost feels obligated, otherwise she'll choose not to and let herself give bored much like your loved one. "So-and-so is making us dinner tonight so we have to make dessert to go with their wonderful meal. I've already started the ingredients so if you could mix them-" or "Christmas is around the corner and we're already getting Christmas cards from family. I've got these Christmas cards that we need to write back to them with-" and so on. I wonder if that approach would work for you? I like the idea of trying chores since that gives a sense of purpose as well, thank you for the suggestions!
She's not extremely religious, but since you mention it, I remember when I was younger she used to watch those super churches and 700 club on TV. I think I'll record some on DVR to watch and I'm sure she'd love laying with me and enjoy me reading some small bible passages. Thank you for the suggestions and making our lives a little brighter
Oh man, my grandma is absolutely obsessed with her little bichon frise. Not five minutes go by without a quick glance around for her little dog or a sneak of some table scraps. It's funny you mention that as she was just watching the Best in Show competition on Thanksgiving! I wonder if I could find more pet related shows on animal planet or netflix. I think puzzles might be a little difficult, but it's not a bad suggestion, I'm willing to try anything that can exercise her brain a bit. Thank you for the ideas!
I love that he's just happy to help and please his wife, that's absolutely lovely
