A day-of-the-week clock.

I work at home and each and every day can seem exactly like the last.  On a whim I got myself a day of the week clock and it works.  It hangs next to my hour clock in the kitchen and with a quick glance I get my feet on the ground as to whether today is Tuesday, Wednesday, or whatever.

I moved it once and got screamed at by my family ... I didn't realize they had come to depend on it to.
What about a big picture throw blanket with pictures of family members or people he loves. That way he can look at the blanket, and even if he doesn’t remember who it is, he’ll know it’s someone who loves him. I think you can order them on Amazon.
My grandma has MS and we got her special books for people with memory disorders and she loves them. They’re simpler with less people but they’re still adult level books
My FIL is approaching the same right now. We gathered pictures of the grand kids, had them printed, and made them into two piece puzzles. For whatever reason, he always remembers his grand babies. I guess double duty, he gets to see them for a moment and gains the accomplishment of putting a puzzle together.
Recordings of family members singing familiar songs from way back. Music memory can last longer in *some* dementia patients.
Being there, being kind, and laughing.
Fitbit.

Just got my mom one a few weeks back. It’s simple but useful gift. It’s fascinating for her to see how many steps she does at the gym / walking around town with us, and we can keep track of stuff like sleeping patterns / heart rate / basic stuff, as well as GPS tracking, since it’s hooked up to our smart phones.
Something plushy he can hold.
 I look after people with dementia and it depends what your dad enjoys, there is a mechanical cat by ageless innovation, most of the residents in later stage dementia love these cats, our facility had over 20 of the dogs and cats donated. It depends what your dad enjoys, there also is a dementia radio but its like 400$, a couple of residents i know have it, there is a large panel to turn the radio on and a big button to change the station.
There are some youtube channels dedicated to reviewing vintage military rations. I know this is weird, but I've noticed some comments in the videos from caregivers stating that their veteran clients perked up and started telling stories with each other regarding military rations from their time in the service. This is something free to try, if you have the ability to use the internet/video with your dad. [MRE reviews](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC2I6Et1JkidnnbWgJFiMeHA)

I also think pictures and posters are a good idea. If you have old photos of your dad and his family members or his former cars or pictures from cities that he visited/lived in it might bring up some memories.   
Your dad sounds cool. Glad he has you looking out for him :)
I’m in the same boat with my FIL. I was going to put together a photo album with pictures of him at certain events or with certain people.  Last week he was telling me about his son getting married in a castle and he wishes he could have been there. I told him his son married me and showed him the pictures of him dancing with my MIL at the reception. He was so happy to know he really was there.  It’s a bizarre time, for sure, but he loves talking about his memories.  

He also really wants a flag pole. So he’s getting that too.
https://www.alzstore.com/holiday-gift-ideas-for-dementia-s/2001.htm
A noise canceling Bluetooth headset for listening to beloved music, podcasts, audiobooks. Get him accustomed to using it and charging it so when the dementia worsens, he will already have this set of actions memorized.
PDD (Parkinson's Disease with Dementia) or Lewy Body Dementia (Dementia starts before signs of Parkinson's) are very similar.   

The first year of diagnosis is the worst as you mentally and physically shut down with "OH, I've been diagnosed with...."

The best gift you can give someone with Parkinson's is a "Parkinson's Boxing Class" membership and go with them. We don't hit each other but work out in class. I was thinking it wasn't for me but kept showing back up. The more I worked out, the better I slept, the better I felt.  Huge difference.

I was trying to find a Neurologist Presentation where she talks about dementia.   We get scared by the word, but it is more executive planning. We may have been great at juggling a dozen things, but these days we are just doing three. Memory does slip, but there are helps for that (I keep all appointments/to do on my computer and print out the night before. My screw up was Pulmonary appt being the day after I have surgery, so got it to see my Lung Doc the week before surgery).
I have never heard of this but I know someone who really needs one of these.  Thank you for sharing.
I bought one of those for my mom when she lived with me. After she passed away & I had her things packed up it occurred to me that I used that clock as much as she did! I got the clock back & depend on it to keep my days straight.
Can you link us to an example of these books?
Yes, I agree.  I hear this works well.
Great link!  Thanks!
[deleted]
[here’s](https://www.amazon.com/dp/1500664685/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_api_i_qmr7Db2PKD1H3) one of the ones we got my grandma. She loved them so much. She called my mom and said “I just love those books that you got me!”
I'm living with Parkinson's for too many years. YOPD age 25, now 61.

Cognitive issues, so technically PDD but still working.

[https://www.parkinson.org/Living-with-Parkinsons/Managing-Parkinsons/Advice-for-the-Newly-Diagnosed](https://www.parkinson.org/Living-with-Parkinsons/Managing-Parkinsons/Advice-for-the-Newly-Diagnosed)
Thank you so much!  I’m going to order this one now.
[deleted]
Of course! It was so sweet seeing her get to read again. It’s been a while since she’s been able to because books get so confusing for her
I did a Neuropsychological assessment.

I scored 99th percentile on math and spatial relationships. Yippee!
I scored 30th percentile on word recall & verbal. Oh shit!

It makes sense, conference call with 5 people talking. I mentally couldn't keep up.  Email with customers, excellent (no distraction, I can focus my thought and check my response).  So the testing gave me tools to continue on.

My clue was large gatherings, five different conversations while reading a book and listening to the radio. I could tell you ever conversation, what I was listening to, and what I had just read.   My wife was blown away when she realized I hadn't missed a word. As the youngest in a large family it was just talent.  These days hard time following my wife if the TV is on. I need to turn off the TV and radio, put down my book, to hear what she is saying (frustrating).

For you Dad, it is a very rapid progression. Do find a Movement Disorder Specialist (Neurologist with additional training) if not already being seen.  For me my biggest medicine is intense exercise.
My FIL keeps mentioning “Life in a Putty Knife Factory”. I’ve got my eye out for a large print version of that one.
