Your mother can apply for a carer for your grandmother. She has to make the decision to ask for help. 

If your grandmother has dementia, perhaps your mother can be granted custody of your grandmother. By that, I mean that she would make any decisions regarding her welfare. 

When you lose the capacity to care for yourself, the choice is left to those that still can (your mother). 

Here are some links where you can search for services in your area: 



https://www.carersuk.org/help-and-advice/practical-support/getting-care-and-support/finding-homecare#sec0


https://www.nhs.uk/conditions/social-care-and-support-guide/care-services-equipment-and-care-homes/homecare/

http://www.nhs.uk/Service-Search/Homecare/LocationSearch/1833


https://www.nhs.uk/conditions/social-care-and-support-guide/care-services-equipment-and-care-homes/national-homecare-providers/
Hi OP, I'm in the UK too and recommend you contact the Alzheimers society asap. They are incredibly helpful and trained to talk to people with dementia about their struggles. Your Grandma may well lie or stretch the truth about what she is capable of doing for herself, but they will see through that and often have lots of suggestions and resources to help. Tbh just talking to them will help you and your mum a lot. They may be able to get her to see that a carer is a necessity. 

Another option is to contact social services, they will be able to assess your Grandma and may provide some help. Unfortunately with cuts etc, what they can provide is limited and the level you have to be at to be eligible for help is a bit ridiculous. 

I don't know where you are but another charity I found really helpful was carers hub. They offer some really useful advice and resources too. 

Now would also be a time to make a list of neighbours, friends and other relatives who may be able to check in on your Grandma and take some of the pressure of you and your mum. 

If I think of anything else, I'll edit and add it! Good luck!
Thank you so much for your message!   


We've tried to also get power of attorney but to no avail, since she has to agree to it herself (Grandma) but she won't. Would this also be the case for asking for carers to go in if Mum applies for them without Grandma knowing she's done it?

Thank you for the links as well!
No problem!

I'm not in the UK, so I'm not sure what the laws are like there. However, I'd imagine that as along as a person does not have power of attorney, they can't really make decisions for someone else (such as hiring a carer). 

If your mother could prove, with a medical certification/psychiatric evaluation/social worker's visit (requirements probably vary from country to country) that your grandmother has Dementia and that she is either a risk to herself or that she can not take care of herself/complete simple daily tasks on her own, then there is a chance that your mother can try to get power of attorney or at least some sort of authorization to hire a carer/make certain decisions regarding your grandmother's wellbeing. 

If your grandmother is still mentally sound enough not to warrant handing over her p.o.a., maybe there is a way to "ease her in" to the idea of accepting outside help. It's really not fair to your mother to have the sole burden. 

If your mom finds someone acceptable (remember that they should be interviewed and if possible get a background check), then perhaps she can casually go over every once in a while with your mother, either unannounced or just tell Gma. : "oh a friend is coming/here to help me tidy" if she asks. 

Start out slowly and for short periods of time and gradually increase the time that "helper" is there. Eventually (after a month or two of tandem weekly visits) your mother can send the helper over without her, freeing her every once in a while. 

This is just a crazy idea and I have no proof that it will work. It might be more work in the beginning, but if she accepts the help in the end, it may be worth it for all of you. 

Remind your mom that she's not alone. 


Also, when googling for the other links, I saw some resources for soliciting something called a "Carer's Allowance". It seems to be some sort of income or gov. subsidized funds for people that have to care for others who can't care for themselves. Perhaps your mom would qualify for some extra help, that, worst case scenario, if she can't find someone, she will at least have some financial help with the burden of paying for transportation/expenses related to caring for your grandmother. 


https://www.carersuk.org/help-and-advice/financial-support/help-with-benefits/carers-allowance#sec1


***
My first step would be trying to talk to your grandmother's doctors to verify her competence or calling a social welfare service to see what your options are in finding healthy solution for all of you. 

***

Hope that you and your mom find help and that your grandmother accepts it! Take care. :)
I don't know about your local laws, but it's generally far easier to get POA while the person can still consent.

What my dad signed, and fortunately he was able to see he was going to need help and was able to consent, was a document saying that POA would come into effect either a) when he decided to sign it, or b) when a doctor determined it was necessary.

Having this in place meant when my dad deteriorated, a doctor's note allowed us to take over financial matters.
Thank you so much, really appreciate you taking time out to help! You’ve been really informative!
