If there are any photos save em. If theyre pics get em scanned in. If theyre digital save in several places and burn em on disc. Of what you have of the Christmas stuff, make one year the year to use everything, then take a ton of pics.

Do some reserach on memory and get a referall from your doctor. Amazon has some good books with brain teasers, exercise for the brain. My dad is 93 and suffers dementia and had a stroke and had PD. He does crossword puzzles. The reading I did suggested drink lots of water and get a good night sleep every night. most people as they age stop trying to learn and only work their brains in the same way while not doing many things.  Do things like if you normally brush your teeth right handed then use your left hand. Switch up some things so your brain has to process. Theres alot more but you get the idea. I dont know how much memory exercises are but try some of those ...understanding that its tough and its ok to not get em all. the point is the effort, the struggle and not the outcome.

Talk to your dad and tell him that all together things will be ok. Youre there for him for whatever he needs. The things you cant change you have to accept. But you will do whatever you can to help. One thing he coud do is together with you set down whatever family history there is. I tried with mine to do it and they werent interested. Whatever you guys want to keep. have him voice record or transcribe whatever you think best. If you have old photos pertinent to the events you can make a memory book with photos and his written memories. Family history.
This is easier said than done but meditation if he can stick with it could help. Memory is a very strange and not fully understood thing, for example it’s possible that memories pervade but it’s our ability to access and interact with them that changes. Whilst this isn’t the same as being able to recall at will, realising that some of those memories are there during meditation could provide comfort.

Also there are some supplements that are worth looking into Omega 3, lions mane, turmeric etc. In addition to avoiding any alcohol, some regular exercise, and regular good nights sleep.
I can tell you this. Get him to record a series of videos for you with the memories he still has of you, your sister and the family. 

My father just passed from dementia, he had the condition for a little over 8 years. I have memories of my father but it is difficult to remember who he was ten years ago before this all started. He became a different person and those memories are so fresh in my mind that I sometimes forget who he was before dementia. Sorry that you have to go through this.
Thank you for such a detailed response. Very luckily for him, his overall health is mostly good and he manages the IT help desk for a cotton manufacturing company so he is constantly having to learn and adapt to new softwares. I’ll definitely mention to him about physical brain exercises like the teeth brushing. Also luckily, he and I are both very sentimental and hold very tight to our family history and traditions so it’ll be easy and even quite fun for us to put memories together like you described.
cool
If you have a large extended family you could even do a simpe free website. I always figured that life gives you only so much so we should do all we can with it. he is blessed to have you, take care and Merry Christmas
