Why did your mother put YOU in the care giver position? I’m sorry but this is bullshit. What your mother is tasking you with is huge! 

Why didn’t your mother get your grandmother into a care home when the caretaker got sick? 

Please learn to start saying NO now. It will consume your life otherwise. Please make sure this is a very temporary situation.
I'm a young caregiver too, don't argue with her and don't take anything personally. Let her do her weird things unless she is in danger of harming herself or destroying something.

Sleep near her so you wake up if she tries to stand up at night.
Don’t get upset if she repeats things...a lot. Treat it like a new conversation. Trying to remind her you already told her won’t help since she’ll have already forgotten. Play a lot of music she likes, especially from her youth. Make a schedule and try to keep to it as best as possible. MAKE TIME FOR YOURSELF!! Find a service that can have someone come in for a couple hours a day so you have time to shop, work out, see friends, whatever. You’ll burn out quickly if you don’t. Stay strong and reach out if you need help.
do not underestimate the work this will require!!! don't go to be the caretaker, go to establish MANY avenues of local support for your grandmother and yourself.

i'd think that with Crohn's disease, it'll be a big priority to get your foods and required meds regularly delivered, as ready-to-eat as possible.
Jesus. Are you able to get nursing visits? In Canada we were able to have nurses come by for an hour or two a day to help with bathing. 
It’s a lot for one person! Take as much time for yourself as you can or you’ll get too drained. Caregiver handbooks are very helpful tools. My local one details what exactly the dementia is doing and the best way we should be communicating with the person who has it.
If she's not very mobile I would recommend getting a wheelchair that you can take her out for walks on good days. When she wakes up in the middle of the night she may not remember who you are, she might call you by a name of a dead family member. For showering I would recommend a stool for her to sit on and a washcloth or loofah.
It’s a difficult situation but to be fair to my grandmother since I was a little girl she always said she never wanted to go into a care home. When talking with my grandmothers sister today they mentioned about her going into a care home and my grandmother flipped out. She is very adamant she doesn’t want to go into a care home and to be very honest with you, my grandmother would make those nurses life hell and she would be the type of woman to escape. We are worried about taking her out of the home she has lived in for 40 years incase it might make her decline more quickly. 
The way it is right now, my mother works 12 hours. I don’t work as I have Crohn’s disease. As it stand right now she needs someone and I would drop anything for my grandmother.
I’m very worried about her because confused, do you have any tips on making things a little easier for her? I understand routine is very important so I am going to try and keep her to her routine.
I love the idea about music! My gran is a huge country music fan and when she was younger like my age she used to be a ballroom dancer and she’s been a dancer basically her whole life and well into her 70s. Thank you! I understand routine is incredibly important, she is in somewhat of a routine right now because of her medication but she also has diabetes so I want to make sure she is getting her food spot on into her routine along with her meds.
We are in the process of trying to sort out a carer to help out but at the moment until we get things sorted out it’ll be just me.
I don't know what stage is she but be always nice and kind, she will like your presence and feel good even if she doesn't recognize you anymore.
Oh good. I would recommend a handbook for sure if there’s one for your area. We have one specific to my region of Canada available as an online PDF.
Thank you for the advice! I’ll have a google just now and see what I can find.
