I was keeping the receipts for my father to see. His poor vision didn't make much difference, but having the receipt was important to him at the time and let him feel more comfortable the shopping. The thing is, someone who is elderly now grew up with a roll of life savers costing 2 or 3 cents, a gallon of gas costing  25 cents, etc. Those are the prices they might be remembering and the sums going out of the account would look enormous by comparison.
I would look around for services that help elderly with dementia.  It might help you and them. Perhaps they can give you tips and advice on how to cope with symptoms. Dementia can be scary and you don't want to go through this alone.  Sounds like the grandparents require more care and assistance than they are willing to admit to.  At some point you will have to take the next step and make a formal referral for dementia care services. You are in my prayers.  Visit Dementia Careblazers on Facebook or on Google: lots of advice.  Best of luck.
One of dementia's symptoms is anger and confusion and depression.  The anger can be dealt with a little -- there are drugs your doctor could prescribe, but frankly we're having excellent results with medical cannabis.  Can you acquire an Edible, and see how he does on 1/4 of a normal dose (1.25mg)?  That's usually a good dose to start them on.  PLEASE NOTE that there's one Dementia med that interacts horribly with Cannabis, check with your doc first.  But if you're clear there, and he does well on that 1/4 of a gummy (or doesn't seem to do much on it) then you can keep the dose the same or increase it in a day or two.  

Frequently new cannabis patients have really big, remarkable reactions to the drug, and then the reactions settle down after they've used it for a while.  Kind of like caffeine -- the first few mugs of it give you jitters, tingles, bigtime energy... then it's just a fine way to wake up.  So start small, only a quarter of a dose.  

If you can't use Cannabis or do use it and it's awful, then it may be time to see the Dr and ask for the hard stuff.  Show a video of the sundowning, get him evaluated, and talk to the hospitals patient advocate/elder care specialist/whatever they call it where you are.  You're about to need more help soon, it's great you're looking ahead so you can be prepared for when that day comes.
Yes, my dad is 93 and he hasnt done the shopping in decades. After Mom passed i took over the chore. So he has no idea what things cost.
Thank you for your advice. I think my mother should maybe take him with her so he can see where the money goes. 

This actually was never a problem but a few days ago. I feel like the dementia progressing makes him delusional and angry. So he lashes out because he does not understand why he cannot be in control anymore.

I hope that this matter resolves itself in a few days, and maybe he forgets why he is angry at her. Normally he is very contempt and happy, even thankful for our help.
Thank you. 

I think that it is time to move them into a specialized care facility. This is a very stressful situation for the whole family and I see that they need 24/7 care. But my mother feels very guilty „leaving them behind“ as she promised them a year ago, they could stay home and she would take care of them. It is mostly due to her that we didn’t progress things to move them out of the apartment. 

Thank you. I just needed people to talk to.
Thanks for sharing that group. I’ve been wanting to find something exactly like that.
Thanks for your advice. Cannabis is illegal here but I was thinking about cbd oils. He is on antipsychotics but we definitely have to check up with his doctor, because I feel the dosage is too low. And also I need to ask if the cbd and the antipsychotics match.
It's sounds very stressful.  Perhaps the father would require more specialized care? Due to dementia symptoms he might become abusive to grandma, too? Deep down,  your grandparents know that you  have done the best you can.  You can still continue to be part of their care. It's just that you will have help. There's nothing wrong with that.  Dementia is truly a very sad illness.  :'(
Praying for you
my mom moved my grandma (dementia, wheelchair bound, bad vision, paranoia, mild aggression) into a care facility with a dementia unit about a year ago. while it was really hard to make the decision it was the healthiest option for all of us. having her at home left almost no time for my mom to do anything else during the day, and eventually the level of care my grandma needed became more than any of us could handle. being a full time care taker is really hard, and i can’t imagine how stressful it is with two people who need your help. having a team of professionals to lean on makes a world of difference. the transition will be hard/strange at first but it does get easier the more they get used to their new routines. i hope everything works out for you and your family. xx❤️
I just placed my 87 year old Mom with Dementia in a board and care 6 days ago. She is adjusting very very well, better than I could have hoped. It was the toughest decision. However, I allowed myself to be depleted and run down to such a low point my own self and life is in shambles. I must now go in to "repair" mode for myself. I don't think our loved ones would want us to be in that condition, nor should we sacrifice our own health and well being. It's all just terribly hard.
There are different levels of facilities.  It sounds like they may be eligible for assisted living and not need a full skilled care facility.  They could still have their own apartment at an assisted care facility, but they would have a food service and some medical assistance if needed.
This is an excellent plan!
I would say that sounds good but I feel they need more care - my grandmother can hardly walk in the first place, is incontinent and my grandfather is too weak to lift her out of bed. 

Unfortunately it is impossible to move them in with my mom or my mom moving in to them. So I will be looking for care facilities in 2020. Just so we will be prepared if my grandfathers dementia worsens. 

I think this is a plan for their final days. As much as I would love for them to stay in an environment they love and know, and with the care of loved ones, I don’t think this is possible if they both get worse every month. I am already afraid that my grandfather might hallucinate one day and may attack my grandmother.  This would be heartbreaking and I could not live with myself if something terrible would happen.
I’m so sorry to hear that.  I wish you the best.
