My perspective:

My mother shares her struggles with my father with my siblings and I.  It is terribly sad and frustrating and upsetting for all of us.  However, we feel the burden we’re under pales in comparison to what my mother is going through.  There are some intimate details that I don’t want to think about, however my mother has no other outlet and needs regular reassurance that she’s doing the right things, comforting and cheerleading from her children.  Personally, I would never ask her to tone it down or censor the information.  Alzheimer’s didn’t ask her if she can handle it or what information she wanted before it decided to wreck 50 years of marriage, so I won’t ask her to do the same for me.  

I do not want the above paragraph to sound harsh or judgmental at all,  it is only my perspective. Alzheimer’s is a bastard and I feel it is our family’s job to support my mom, even when it is painful and uncomfortable.
It sounds to me like FIL needs an outlet, someone to share his struggles with. Alz is upsetting. If your husband (the son) is upset by the texts, imagine how FIL (the husband) feels seeing this happen to his wife. 

Now that said, I don’t think I could handle those texts throughout the day, all day. 

I wish I had an answer.
I kind of think maybe Id ask husband what he would like and go from there. Everybody's different, and just because its upsetting to him doesn't necessarily mean he'd want his dad to censor himself. 

I suspect he and all his siblings might benefit from eventually getting together to talk about it, and then going together to talk to dad about it. 

Thats just my default answer based on not really knowing any of them though.

I got updates (not as frequent) and it was stressful but i wouldn't have wanted to be shielded from them.
Do you think FIL might be feeling guilty and is sharing the info as a way of showing how difficult this situation is for one person?  At the same time, it bothers me that 5 people would brute-force change someone's underwear, there are ways to get some compliance that aren't as extreme.
I understand where you are coming from. You want to protect your husband from the things he doesn't have to know.

I'm quite sure his mum wouldn't want that either.
His dad is probably not thinking about it from the mum/son perspective. 

Texting everything keeps everyone in the loop and is his way of sharing the burden. 

You could ask him to just share a more generic 'mum unsettled today' type of update but he may take offence.

It really is a tough one, I wish I had an easy answer for you. Talk to FIL if it becomes too much. Best wishes to you all.
You could mute the texts to his phone, and get the texts for your husband.  Read them to him minus the really difficult bits.  "So your dad says that today your mother had trouble changing clothing, it took 5 caregivers to get it done.  Maybe we should call her this weekend."
Can your husband mute the alerts on the group text so he can check it only when he's mentally prepared to read them (maybe once per day)? That might help enough to keep it feeling manageable while still allowing FIL the outlet during this tough adjustment period.
Please do !!! I an going thru end of life stage with my husband whom has had Alzheimer's for 10 years now. I get so frustrated at times. It's hard on me, he has no idea, at this point where he is. His kids just started to help, some, maybe once a week I get to leave the house.  They only see him when he's asleep.  They have no idea what it's like when he's awake. Throwing all the covers off, pulling off the disposables,  getting hands in everything, literally,  because they have no idea!!!! It's pure hell,  let me tell you!!!! We make above Medicaid so not eligible and can't afford a nursing home at $5500++ a month, so he's at home and I'm the only one with him. Family needs to know what's going on and be prepare,  spouses need to vent. He's on hospice and they are really the only ones I have.   I will be so glad when it's over because he would not want to live like this.
FIL is crying out for help. He no doubt feels alone and helpless. He is hurting and all OP can think of is he is bothering his son. Maybe his children should answer his call and check up on him, offer support, or at least commiserate together.
[deleted]
One part guilt, a gajillion parts ‘why is the world doing this to her???’ He is in shock and trying to cope. His wife is scared. My father had alzheimer’s and my mother had Parkinson’s and one of the first things we children had to do is get over any squeamishness over seeing them naked or cleaning them like infants. My father was frightened and strong. My mother saw ghouls in the night. We had to ‘get over’ a lot of things because the relationship dynamics changed. We had to give back with no expectation that things would get better and of course they only got worse. But we siblings are bonded stronger now. Your FIL needs support from his. This could be the one plus that comes out of this, the only good takeaway—and your husband will need this positive in the future.
[deleted]
EXACTLY!!!!!
Why is he hearing it from the facility multiple times a day?  If he constantly calling over there?
It couldn’t hurt to go to a meeting. Maybe  he would make some other friends to vent with.
Yes, they do, just call them. Our hospice had meetings 2x a month.
I really hope you don’t feel terrible.  Everything about figuring this stuff out sucks.  It is all hard and all frustrating, and none of it, none of it is easy or fun.  We all have to confront some difficult truths and the best way to do that is often directly.  Take the advice in, think about it, and move forward.  Above all, go easy on yourself and forgive yourself.   You’re going to need to do that too.
You asked if you are being too high maintenance in wondering if your father in law's way of grieving is healthy for your spouse. It sounds to me like maybe the person you are responding to has been through Alzheimer's as a spouse before and tried to give you a little more of that perspective in answer to your question.

&#x200B;

Supporting someone you love through the death of a parent is hard. I'm sorry you're both going through this. Your husband is an adult, he can decide what the healthiest way for him to manage the updates from his father is. He knows he has your support and that he can come to you.
I wish my husband's kids were as good and thoughtful as you.......
This. And at the meeting with the facility, ask for a daily update in the evening, versus constant updates throughout the day.
