I'm sorry. I'm so very sorry for the pain you are feeling, and I'm even more sorry that this will be happening on a day when you should be celebrating. 

You are not a failure. You have done your best for your father. You love him. You support him. You tried to keep him with you, and that's actually lovely, even if you feel like it was a selfish thing, even if it was, it was also out of love, so I refuse to believe that makes you a failure. And you are absolutely in no way a failure for being unable to see to all his needs the way an entire trained staff will be either, so please try not to feel that way. The brokenness isn't as easy to fix I'm afraid, but I hope it will get easier with time. Most things do. 

I'm thankful that your dad has a kiddo that loves him to the moon and back, that wants him around instead of seeing him as a burden to be passed off. So few people have that. He is blessed beyond measure to have you. Love and strength to you, internet stranger.
[deleted]
Your love for your Dad will always be there, and hopefully you can go visit him as much as you like.  Take your son out for some treks to see him, plan to eat a couple meals with him a week, or do some regular study sessions with your son if the place sets the tone for it.  It'll be a struggle to find your new normal, and I hope it'll be worth it for all of you.
What I often say is "This isn't for him.  This is for you".  You are no abandoning your father or shirking your responsibilities.  You are giving him the best care that you can under the circumstances.
I’m not sure why you would consider yourself a failure.  You kept your dad at home, for as long as his health allowed.  Now his health demands a higher level of care.  So, you see, the decision really doesn’t have much to do with you at all. This is a common thing that happens to the elderly.  One medical issue becomes two.then three, they add up.  Your dad stayed at home far longer than most would have been able to, given his medical history.  Be glad that he is getting the care he needs now, and you can go back to being his child, and visit him as often as you want. That’s a big deal.
You are a saint. Good luck with everything.

How old is he? Just curious.
Thank you.  Your kind words help more than you know.  Somebody understands.
Thank you.  It does give me peace of mind.
Study sessions at the home sound like a good idea. Thank you for the thought.
Thank you.
He's 80, will be 81 on the 31st.
I went through this with my mom as well. She was also my mentor, and we run a home for disabled adults. The laws here say I simply can't have anyone non-ambulatory in the home (regs), so I was spared a bit of the guilt.  Her last 18 months were great though, and your dad's golden years will be too, just stay involved and make time for regular visits -- Sometimes we need to remind ourselves that we aren't much help to others if the situation is drowning us. Chin up, what you're doing is sound for your dad and you. Best of luck. :)
He's had a good run.
