Is he still in the hospital or...?  Elderly folks will get dementia like this from anesthesia pretty often.  Typically it wears off after a while but defiantly talk to his doctor about it.
Try getting a neurological evaluation from a gerontological neurologist.  It could very well be related to anaesthesia or prescription drugs, especially if it came on suddenly.  Dementia-like symptoms can also come about from infections; older women with UTIs often manifest fonfusion and judgement issues.

Get him checked out for remaining infections, soon.  This may be reversible.
it sounds like a delirium that triggered a cognitive decline. a medical stay in the elderly often triggers a delirium which can take a long time to recover from. talk to a doctor would be my advice.
My mom's dementia started this year after she went into septic shock from a UTI (no symptoms visible to me until the second day she didn't want to get up  and I called an ambulance). It's been a surprise and a struggle. It's mostly short term memory so far. Not quite what you described (not a big family but she knows who I am) but yeah. Sometimes infections can cause or accelerate dementia or similar in older people. It's rough.
my papa was fine then had a hip surgery and and after was diagnosed with alzheimer’s/dementia. for about a year he didn’t get better or worse but he had a kidney problem and needed surgery again and after his dementia got way worse and ever since he’s been getting worse
&#x200B;

He left hospital months ago :/
I'll try to get a consultation soon. Hopefully it will get better, even though hope seems to be fading.
This does sound very realistic now. It's been a couple of months since the onset of this condition. I've heard usually it's long term if not treated from the start, Thank you for taking the time to reply to this message.
That seems so frightening :( I'm sorry you went through that. It really is a horrible thing to happen to anyone at all and watching your loved ones suffer makes you feel so miserable yourself. I hope you're alright. Just so you know - You can always shoot me a text message if you need someone to talk to about anything really. 

Take care of yourself and your family.
For sure go visit his PCP.
