Medicaid, will cover folks once they spend down their savings. Medicaid is a state run program, so actual rules vary by state , but generally it's when a patient reaches about $2k of liquid assets they qualify. 

Medicaid unfortunately is not accepted in most private assisted living facilities, so those folks usually are transferred or warehoused once they get on Medicaid, to state sponsored facilities where the quality of care is pretty poor . Quality of care is poor because Medicaid reimbursement rates are notoriously little, so virtually no facility wants to deal with Medicaid patients, it's usually only state mandates places that do.

Folks who don't understand the system, always talk about spending down asssets or shifting assets to relatives to qualify for Medicaid, but beside the 5 year look back that the government uses during application process, worse is your going to be in some of the worst facilities, so do whatever you  can to stay in a decent place.
In my experience with my grandma (UK) we had to wait until social services would help us, and they only help when things are very bad. We couldn’t afford to pay for a care home upfront so it wasn’t until me and my mum weren’t sleeping and my grandma was stripping and forgetting how to walk that they stepped in and moved her the into the closest care home that would take her.
My mother (85), who has her mind, is in an assisted living facility that take her SS and the type of health insurance for the poor. Her paid for home was put in my brother's name and all her rental property sold off. So in the government's eyes she is destitute.
I was diagnosed with early onset dementia. My wife who has never seen this up-close thinks she can care for me. I have a paid for house, money from a retirement buy out and and an IRA that grew in over 30 years of savings. I don't want to leave my wife dead broke so I am hoping something takes me out early since I don't have the stomach for suicide.
Home health. A lot of the families I work with have a caregiver come a few days a week (MWF) to do showers and general housekeeping and then they have a LOT of family and friends come through to help with the rest of the day-to-day care. It’s a shitty situation to be sure. I always wonder about the ones without family and friends to rely on.
Some facilities will essentially accept Medicaid, but only a limited number of Medicaid patients at a time. So a facility may have a spot open, but no Medicaid spots. We finally got my MIL into a very nice place that would accept her as a Medicaid patient, but the remaining cost after Medicaid pays its share basically takes the entirety of her monthly social security check, so there’s nothing left over, but at least it can all be covered for the most part. Anything else that she needs we pay for out of pocket. We’re very lucky to find her a Medicaid bed in a nice place. We almost placed her in a different facility, which was less expensive but really a bare bones type place that was a little depressing, and we felt like the level of care looked a little inattentive. It would have been okay, and at one point was our only option and much better than her unsafe living situation before going into a care facility, but it wasn’t outstanding. We found her a spot in the nicer place at the last minute, and decided it’s worth having her entire social security income going into her care, since it’s her money. It does mean that she essentially has no expendable income at all, so we pay for anything else she needs ourselves, but at this point those needs are quite limited. Basically just some clothes and things occasionally. But this took a very long time and we were very lucky to get the spot. Many people will try to manage with home care and/or sit on a waiting list for a Medicaid bed forever.
Ours was a set price. But it was definitely worth it.
my papa can’t go anywhere. my grandma does her best to take care of him and when one of his kids or grandkids has time off work they come over to help take care of him. but they aren’t going anywhere
State nursing homes. I used to agency staffing at one of those places when I was younger. They’re just about the only places that’ll accept Medicaid.

In other news, our healthcare system is a fucking joke.
I hope things go better than anticipated and you find a way to protect your estate.
[deleted]
Go to an elder care attorney, the sooner the better.  I know you’re young, but they know all the in’s & outs to protect your assets.  It’s absolutely worth the appointment.
Is your home in her name as well? There are rules about taking her house.
