If her medicine isn't time released then mix it in with pudding, soup or whatever. My dad won't take a pill so we crush them between two spoons and mix it in. Works great.
Maybe look into a pill crusher (I got one for my dad, who has some arthritis issues, from amazon). He puts it in her food (I would recommend limiting her portion so you ensure she eats what you want her too, then give her any additional food i.e. if you are giving her turkey and corn/stuffing, mix the meds in the stuffing, giver her that first, then give her the corn and turkey)
It may not be the “optimal” way to give it to her, but it gets her something.
[deleted]
Or a healthy smoothie.
That’s for depression. It will say on the bottle something like ER (extended release). If nothing else, call the doctor or pharmacy and ask if it’s time release, meaning it slowly releases the medicine throughout the day. And the doctor might have some helpful tips for getting her to take it. I wish you the best of luck!
Ha! I'm on that. I don't think it can be crushed. My pills aren't large and my doc said I can half them (I was trying to wean myself off). So maybe half them then hide them in food. She probably won't notice it.
[deleted]
Call the pharmacy again to double check. Maybe you will get a different person.
The doctor’s office could be open today. I’d try them again today and ask for the doctor’s nurse. Also, did you find out if it’s extended release? It’ll be on the bottle next to the name of the medicine. Probably written in smaller letters near the bottom is where you’ll find the brand name (should be Celexa) and it’ll say something like “substituted for Celexa” and next to “Celexa”, there will be SR (sustained release) or ER, something like that. (FYI: I’m a medical assistant with Xray and phlebotomy-drawing blood. So I do have some medical knowledge, but I’ve been a homemaker for a few years to homeschool my son and take care of my grandfather who has dementia. So I can be of some help, but not as much as a practicing nurse and/or doctor.)
The reason why time release matters is because if it’s extended release, you can’t crush it. So if we can find out if it’s extended release, then you’ll know if it’s okay to crush.
[deleted]
That’s a wonderful idea. If your grandmother is refusing it, try it in the oatmeal for breakfast or pudding for dessert. Something like that. Also, I’d definitely not mix it in an entire bowl of something unless you’re certain she’ll eat the entire thing. Otherwise, she won’t be getting the entire dose. I’m so glad you’ve been able to have some options! Good luck!! ❤️❤️
you can also mix them in a favorite food or beverage like ice cream or hot chocolate, something you're reasonably sure they'll consume all of. you can also buy a pill crusher from Walgreens or another pharmacy.
