My dad tells me all the time about the trips he has taken to Japan and Paris (he's never been to either) and of other places he's not been. He really doesn't know they are fabrications. I just tell him he is full of beans and try to move on to another subject that he is interested in. It really is the best way I have found to deal with it. Distraction is good thing in this case. My dad has full on dementia, so this is an ongoing issue. And not all dementia are the same. Another good thing to try is music from when you mom was young. Apparently it has been proven that music makes some permanent connections with people. I know that my uncle (before he died from Alzheimer's) was greatly soothed by listening to '60s music (tunes from when he was a teen). That might be a help for your mom. Good luck!
A lot of comments here saying, "roll with it, " and "go along with it." I've read that experts recommend doing that.
It might be a sign of dementia, but I’ve also noticed a tendency for the elderly to embellish their life stories to make the mundane more exciting. 

My father (78) acts as though his few years in the Air Force sweeping floors makes him a gosh darn military career man of Rambo level skills. He’s always been a histrionic attention seeker, but maybe this helps him retain some of his masculinity as he grows feeble. You wouldn’t believe the big, stupid truck he drives.

Anyway, I recommend going with the flow. It doesn’t hurt anyone and it’s not worth your precious energy.
I've learned to just go along with Mom's stories. Smile pleasantly, ask her about them, but just go with the flow. If I try to correct her, she gets confused and pretty soon she's repeating the same (wrong) story anyway. She remembers people, places, events from the "old days" but often mixes them up or embellishes the details. Distracting/redirecting her works too.
My mom has dementia in her 60s. She's not good with short term or long term memory. She still remembers us, though! Sometimes she doesn't remember that she has no reason to be angry with us, but as least she knows who she's mad at. We just try to roll with it, but it gets frustrating.
Why tell him he's full of beans? Why not go along with it to make him happy?
Okay thanks I will keep this in mind. Distraction is a good idea I will try it thanks.
Thanks thats good to keep in perspective
When I've heard the story 20 times in a row, I just want to move on. I do have my limits. And he seems to respond to the beans comment jokingly.
