My best guesses are that she was dehydrated before admission and IV fluids caused the improvement(dehydration can exacerbate symptoms) OR she is not getting enough oxygen at home but does while admitted. Severe hypoxia symptoms look a lot like dementia; confusion, memory problems, hallucinations, behavioral changes. She also might not be getting all meds at home and does at the hosp, this could happen for many reasons. 

Without knowing reasons for admission and the full scope of treatment received, it’s really hard to say. Even with that info it’s possible you might never know for sure.
Maybe she is also suffering from depression or anxiety. And the attention that she receives at the hospital helps to calm her fears. I also suffer from heart issues. And when I go to the hospital and the doctor tells me that everything looks normal, it helps me to feel better.

Or, it could be that your mom hates being in the hospital, and will do whatever it takes to leave. Even if it means being more cooperative and proving to people that she can take care of herself. I know I hate going to the hospital. And when I am there, I want nothing more than to be at home.
Something very similar happened with my mom during a stay.  It was almost certainly due to the iv fluids she was on while at the hospital. She barely drinks water normally but when hooked up to iv fluids and properly hydrated, she was far more lucid.

Maybe try getting creative with ways to get more water into her!
Maybe there is mold in the house. When she stays at the hospital, she doesn't have to be around it.
maybe it's something in her environment that's causing a worsening of her symptoms - black mold?
What about the crap food?  If they give her low-sodium, boring food, it may have reduced her water intake.  Water loss is usually how fatally-sick people suddenly "wake up and talk" just before they die.
/r/EarlyOnsetDementia
UTI? Does she get antibiotics at the hospital?
Could it be related to diet? Maybe too much sugary foods at home. Sugar has been known to exacerbate the systems, and in fact alzheimers is often referred to as diabetes type 3.
Interesting. My mom was just diagnosed with dementia last month although she’s been showing mild/moderate signs for a few years. 

In Nov/Dec she was in the hospital as they worked to determine what was going on. While she was at first kind of besides herself, her final few weeks were kind of incredible￼. She looked great, was walking around, showed less signs of dementia and when they were present were to a much lesser degree. 

We’ve since moved her into a home and it’s been brutal in so so many ways. My hope is that it will get better and that it’s simply the shock of being in a new environment. 

I should mention that in the hospital she was assessed to still be in independent living (but in a retirement home), and while that doesn’t seem to be working out at all for now, I kind of get it. In the hospital she was a superstar so she sort of tricked them? 

My completely non professional option in this case was that the case that the nurses gave her and the forced proximity to others in some way eased her mind, whereas the new retirement home setting (particularly the independence elements) have scared her and have caused a downfall. 

For us, her family, we have to determine if we continue to see how the independent living pan out, or move her into a higher level of assisted living. :((
Was your mom on drip antibiotics?  If so, which one or ones?  Some antibiotics can have a postive effect on memory.

 [https://www.alzforum.org/webinars/pathogen-hypothesis](https://www.alzforum.org/webinars/pathogen-hypothesis) (seek question and reply).
That is my thought as well - they are probably giving her a Ringers IV solution when they admit her. That's fluids and electrolytes, which can make a huge difference if she's dehydrated or malnourished. (Which could also be a medication side effect.)
It's possible, and a complicating factor is that she has congestive heart failure so fluid intake has to be somewhat limited.  However, this improvement in symptoms started on hospital visits that happened even before the heart failure was identified. I don't believe it is hypoxia because we check her Sp02 and it has been fine.  The medics who take her to the hospital also check and her levels are at or near 100%.  This is partially how the heart failure was diagnosed - her difficulty breathing was due to fluid buildup and not an exacerbation.  I'm not sure if it is possible to be dehydrated while also having heart failure related fluid build up, but maybe.

Getting her meds is not an issue since she has been living with me. We keep track of everything.
I saw a video about a guy who made water "pods" for his relative with dementia as they found eating it easier than simply drinking water.

Heres the link - [https://www.alzheimers.org.uk/blog/jelly-drops-sweets-tackle-dehydration-dementia](https://www.alzheimers.org.uk/blog/jelly-drops-sweets-tackle-dehydration-dementia)
Fluids seem to be the most promising idea, and that is complicated for my mom due to heart failure.  Maybe I can have a visiting nurse give her an iv, but she hates needles a lot.
Or they could be giving her Fluids. Dehydration makes dementia worse.
Bullshit. No one dies from bland food. Most likely it's the forced bed rest and meds that help her feel better.
In the past she did get antibiotics because they weren't sure if her breathing issues were due to pneumonia but the last visit she did not and she still improved.
Ahhhh yes.  Either way.  The rapid change (24-48 hours after leaving hospital) means it's a quick change, mood or water are most likely.  
Or!  And this is a big one... is she being forced to take her drugs at the hospital? If she's on mood/depression/anxiety drugs, and must take them at the hospital, she may not be taking them at home.  That'd account for it too.
I never said anyone died.  Goodness, what hostility for no reason.
Hmm. Medication, food, drink or environment? Tough question.
But you said eating bland food will cause someone to become dehydrated, which is also false.
No, I didn't.  Misrepresenting someone's statements to "win" an argument is quite sad.  Please stop doing this. 

 

>But you said eating bland food will cause someone to become dehydrated, which is also false.

&#x200B;

>   If they give her low-sodium, boring food, it may have reduced her water intake.   

Not the same thing.
These are your words.  " Water loss is usually how fatally-sick people suddenly "wake up and talk" just before they die. "

You are basically saying that she was about to die from water loss.
okay chief
