It sounds like she might be sundowning. This is the kind of thing that people do when they had specific roles, and often happens at school “picking up” time. 

Have you asked her why she wants to go see them? It may be that she’s seeking comfort from them, or if she always used to do the school pick up she might have regressed to that time in her life and be anxious that she isn’t fulfilling her role as your mother.

To her, home might be another word for hugs, or a comfort that her parents provided her, and she’s unable to express it as such.

With regards to telling her they’re dead, there are ways of doing this while reducing the distress it might cause. Perhaps having an area with photos and (fake) candles that she can go to when she’s missing them, or going through a book of memories and asking her to talk about them and funny things that happened in the past. Her long term memory won’t be as affected as her short, and talking about the past may help her to remember some of what’s happening now.

The other alternative is to lie and say “they’re coming later” or “we’ve got a taxi booked for tonight, until then let’s...” because if you’re caught out in the lie you risk harming the relationship with your mom, and while she may not remember why she distrusts you, she will remember the feeling you gave her. Memories are stories in a different part of the brain than emotions and I often tell people that a person with dementia may not remember facts (names, faces) but they do remember the feelings. 

I’m a dementia specialist in the UK and my mum is a younger person with dementia who is quite far gone in her own journey, so happy to talk about how we handle it with my mum. She asks to see her mum every 90 seconds or so, and can get very aggressive and physical, so we’ve been there. A lot!
I watched an excellent video, which I can no longer find that suggested rather than telling them they ARE home, just ask them questions and listen. “What would it be like at home? What would it smell like?” Etc.

You could do the same with the kids/parents. “Tell me about them...what are they like?”

I tried it with my mother-in-law and it seemed to help her feel like she’d expressed what she was trying to say.
Generally when my Grammy gets fixated on it, we'll drive her around for a few minutes and bring her back to the house and she thinks she's home then. 

All of the above are great suggestions! I might try a few of them out as well.
