Nobody can answer your question.  Could be tomorrow, could be next decade.
As others have said its impossible.  To estimate. 

Generally though people of a certain age 90+ have a lot less reserve, so even if they're "healthy" they're  also 90+ so even mild medical situations, like fevers, cold, flu, falls. Etc. Could be life threatening. At that age usually they go quickly once the medical situation manifests itself... 

Someone with severe dementia, the last phase is typically when they stop eating drinking, termed "failure to thrive", if they are bedridden from this point its a couple of weeks. 


Until then it's anyone's guess.
I think only God knows the answer to that.
You'd think there would be statistics regarding this, but no.
Thanks for answering the impossible question. She is I'd say a 6 out of 7 on one of the scales, so some way off being unable to eat or drink. My partner wants to rent out her house when we move next month, but it's been nothing but heart break and depression. I want him to sell it. He's a jot off being committed himself in my opinion due to all the stress and his unhealthy attachments. I am very close behind.
She had a cold a year ago and fared better than we did. I guess if a flu gets into the rest home, there's going to be a lot of situations.
Well, can you ask him for me then
There are.  The data is inconclusive because it's literally all over the place.  There's no way to know.
I'm sorry this is not an easy road. I hope you and your partner can talk to someone about this.  I don't know if you have access to a hospice program but they often have someone who can talk to you and help you through this.  They also have some basic ideas on a vague timeline though it really depends on so much.  My dad entered a memory care facility at a point when he was a fight risk at home (taking walks and getting lost) and throwing things away that he shouldn't.  He was eating well at that point.  He died after about two years there during which time he got to the point that it sounds like your loved one is at.  But then he got influenza A and took a dive health-wise. I think he got one other illness after that.  Each time he hurt himself falling or got sick he'd drop a peg or two. And hospital stays were especially bad.  People with dementia get really disoriented when they get moved esp a hospital.   He was eating but was eating less and less for about 4 months I think but was still able to walk sometimes after having long bouts of sleeping half or all day.  But he wasn't eating enough to sustain himself.  The hospice folks estimated a week or two once he was bed-ridden and I kick myself now for trusting them because he died within two days.  We were expecting the long farewell and were really unprepared, partly because he'd get so sick and get better several times before when we thought for sure it was the end.  

I hope you can get some assistance so that this isn't so mentally exhausting.  Take care.
Sometimes it's best not to know to much about your future.
So I've gathered also. I have to stop pondering the impossible.
I'm really sorry about your dad. It's something so terrible we have no idea about until it happens to a loved one. My partner feels like he's saying goodbye to his old life, almost jumping into the grave with her with reckless and annoying behaviour. I've been so close to leaving countless times in my mind but i just can't and i have no support other than a friend I can text, a GP and this forum. We looked after June for 2 years, first with meals, then with laundry and groceries. She got to a critical point when she couldn't understand that her husband had died 12 years ago. I left it up to my partner to make the judgement call of when to put her into care and he left it too late, drank stupid amounts and tried to bulldoze the system. Ended up with an ambulance here to pick June up, my partner was combative and had to leave the room. June thought she was off to the hospital to see her husband, she almost ran out the door with them. He was thrown out of the hospital trying to get a power of attourney. Everything was just awful and i couldn't reason with him. I had to go through her hoard which was mostly out of sight, in draws and cupboards, she certainly wasn't right for a very long time by the tihings she hung onto. My partner found everything sentimental. It infuriated me. So really it was him that was and is the problem more than she. He won't see anyone and has promised to stop drinking but can't do more than limit it a little, even though he's on meds. I want him to sell the house and simplify his life as much as possible before something really bad happens. I don't want to see this place ever again, it's oppressive and creepy. I wanted to know how long June might have because i don't really see him healing until she's gone and i don't think it's rentable anyway without a lot of work. Thank you for your kind words and sorry about the rant.
Hey, sorry, I had meant to reply!  Is there any way you can get your partner to join you for counselling or maybe if you get a hospice program (I think they are free through certain insurance.) and the hospice programs usually offer counselling.  I think aside from leaving that is all you can do if the situation is still the same.  
I hope things get better for you.
Thanks for replying, most people don't a 2nd time. He's been completely alcohol free for over a week now and rather wound up as all the pre existing problems still remain. Trying to get him to sell his mothers house instead of renting it because it's just a dog, 2 v small homes built at different times in different styles, both with their own problems. A non compliant elevator between the 2, a machine shop in the basement, you get the picture, old worn carpets, curtains, yuck. It hangs over both of us and her money is rapidly running down. This is what I'm focusing on atm, hopefully the rest fulls into place. Yes there should be councelling but so much yet to do that needs to come first.
