If she has Alzheimer’s, arguing with her will never change her mind.  She probably thinks you’re wrong and she’s absolutely right. It’s easier to agree with her or get her to change the subject somehow.  

They say that an Alzheimer’s patient can’t stay in your world, so you have to go into their world.  Anything to keep her calm and happy is the best way to (within reason,of course 🙂).
I've learned that there is no possibility of reasoning with my grandmother. She's lost the ability to understand anything complex, so it is easiest to let her just believe whatever she made up and not anger her further. Trying to prove her wrong will only make her feel more antagonized while she's trying to make up for her condition by forming memories that she can grasp and remember.

Off topic, but I'm not from the south and am unfamiliar with these familial terms. What is the difference between nana and mawmaw? Do they actually represent paternal/maternal side?
My mum does this. She gets fixated on ideas and grudges and there is just no changing her mind. Arguing with someone with Alzheimers will only make them (and you) frustrated and upset. Distraction is the only way. Distract and redirect to something more pleasant and joyful for her. Make her laugh. Engage her. Change the subject every time it comes up. 

When my mum gets a fixed idea in her head about someone she 'hates' or who has supposedly wronged her in some way, the only way to actually break it is for her to spend time with that person in a positive and enjoyable way so that she remembers why she likes them. It sounds like that might not be an option here so redirecting her attention is the only way.
They don't represent anything except your grandmother, though logically (thinking about it now) it should differentiate between maternal/paternal sides for other people, too. I'm not exactly sure how my nana became my nana, because all of my other grandmothers are called mamaw. It's usually just a term that gets thrown onto someone for whatever reason.
