I found that group a few weeks ago when one of those idiots wandered over to r/dementia and thought it would be funny to post something and troll. 

I thought about reporting the group, but I thought they seemed mostly harmless as long as they stayed in that group and didn’t troll r/dementia and r/Alzheimer’s. Don’t get me wrong, I think the group is super-cringy and deeply unfunny, but if they’re keeping their infantile humor to themselves I guess it’s fine. 

However, if more people chime in that they’ve accidentally joined or posted in that group and faced distress, we can see if we can get it removed or change the name. I haven’t been a mod for very long and I’ve heard that reddit can be pretty slow to move on things but we definitely don’t want people getting lost, confused, and upset.
Does that subreddit have a mod? If so, I can't find one. That is the first individual to whom I would report this incident, and ask that s/he take control and shut down the trolls.
That's really shitty. I didn't see it (new to this group) but hope the poster gets reported and banned.
Yeah, it has to be some other group cause I belong to a group and they're not like that at all. I'll see if I can find the name.... it could be this one.
L
My mother (75, diagnosed a year ago)is in her bed sobbing right now. She thought she was going to find information and support, and got teased by creeps. She thought she was having some kind of episode. Ruined her day, and mine. She doesn't understand trolling, or why anyone would want to be so mean as to bait her like that. I'm ready to go track some trolls down at home and hurt them over it, so yes, I'll be putting in some work to get that page shut down.
I kinda got the impression that trolling is the whole point of the thing.
Not this group, a different one with a similar name.
Do you have screenshots or other info we can send to the main reddit mods? It would help convince them to shut it down, maybe even get some users banned. I’m so sorry that happened to your mother, that is terrible.  I would have trouble seeing straight as well if someone did that to my mom. 

I guess I shouldn’t be, but I’m continually surprised about the complete lack of empathy some people show for others. I’ll start contacting people to see what we can do.
That sucks to hear, and I'm sorry it's caused her upset. That's the last thing she needs.

Can I suggest the [Alzheimer's Society](https://www.alzheimers.org.uk/) for support and advice? They're a UK based charity but the general information will still apply. They also have moderated message boards on there where you can safely discuss all kinds of issues or get advice other affected people or their families.

Big hugs to you and your mother!
That group needs to be straightened out by someone and the creepy person blocked cause Alzheimer's and Dementia are not laughing matters and is not funny at all. 
My husband is at end of life now with Alzheimer's. Its been 10 long years. It's very frustrating and confining for the caregiver, me, he has no idea where he is or who I am anymore.
Hum, bummer....
Thanks, I don't. I got her off the computer ASAP.
Thanks.
