Perhaps a very basic corded wall mounted phone would be easier for her to use and more like what she considers "regular." (Wall mounted so it will be more difficult for her to unhook and throw away.) My mother similarly thought her phone (and coffee maker, remote control, etc.) was broken because she couldn't remember how to use it, and after many failed attempts to try to solve the problem, I stumbled on the Clearsounds Photo Frame Phone. It is a corded landline phone that has a large keypad and large buttons you can program with frequently used numbers. You use a photo or nametag to label the programmed numbers. It worked for my mother. Now to answer the phone, she just has to pick up the handset, and to call her family, she just has to push the button with their name. 

Good luck. Know you are not alone.❤
My mom is obsessed with hair spray. None of them work... but the ones that do are too sticky/spray too much/spray too little etc. After buying drugstore brands and expensive salon brands and rejecting all of them, I finally caught on.  I had kept 3 of her rejects because I thought they were fine and now when she inevitably starts complaining about her current hairspray, I bring over one of the old ones and she struggles with it for a few weeks and then complains again. She doesn't remember the specific brands she tried before so I just keep them all in rotation.  I just tell her I took back her old can and got a refund and used the money to buy the new one.
[deleted]
Chiming in to say my mum had the exact same pattern, including throwing out phones when she became convinced it was broken, and I'm afraid we never found a solution. It's endlessly frustrating, and I wish you all the best.
Perhaps something familiar like [this](https://smile.amazon.com/gp/product/B00005MITU/ref=ox_sc_saved_title_8?smid=ATVPDKIKX0DER&psc=1) mounted on the wall so she can't throw it away.
A wall mount may help. We’ve tried about 5 different styles of phone trying to find out what a “regular phone” is and she was most excited about a rotary phone. The only one we haven’t tried is that wall mounted, spiral cord one which might end up being the answer. But she’s never had a wall mounted phone (well, not in the last 25 years at least). 

Definitely worth a try though. Thank you!
The problem is that my grandma literally threw the last phone away when my grandpa was out. I feel like this pattern will only continue and while they can technically afford it, it doesn’t seem like the best solution.
My grandma talks to herself all the time, I can totally see that backfiring for her. 😂 I hope it works well for your dad!
I really don’t see a solution for us either. Someone did suggest telling her that the phone she wants is on back order or that the phone company is out of them. I feel terrible lying to her but this may be what we try as a last resort.
That’s the only phone we haven’t tried yet so that may be a good solution. Thanks!
[deleted]
I never got used to the lies... But sometimes it is the best choice. Maybe try even, "it'll get here next week"? Rather than giving her a reason to be angry at the phone company, pick a non-specific future date to be hopeful about?
It’s comforting in a way knowing this isn’t a unique issue but I’m also sorry you’re going through it too. I hope you find a good solution for your dad.
