Some sort of parental lock with a code needed for anything that costs maybe
You might consider dropping prime for netflix. Prime has a lot of movies and shows that you have to pay extra for and are not well marked in my opinion. On Netflix everything is free so he doesn't have to worry about accidentally buying something.
Hi, I'm new here.  I wish my mother with enjoyed watching TV.  8 months ago she was watching a few channels but now she refuses to turn on the TV.  The way she tried to explain it was that it reminds her - she didn't say these exact words, but reminds her when things were normal.  They are reminders of what used to be. 

She is also bothered by commercials.  I think some are kind of strange.  When I'm there I will turn on the Hallmark channel, and sometimes she can tell me what happened in the movie since she had watched them a few times before.  But otherwise her house is silent. No TV, no music, definitely no radio.  The silence is very sad to me. 

Yes, you can add a 5 digit code for purchasing movies etc on Amazon.
Well, he bought Shrek today. He didnt watch Shrek nor is that something he likes. He always has the remote in his hand. With his tremors he will accudentally chage channels. He has told me he doesnt want anythingf that costs money, and hes not rich. Spent $100 or more this month on mistaken clicks. he browses shows, selects one and sits there staring trying to figure it out, but he apparently cant tell between whats free with Prime and what is extra.

&#x200B;

So, I went an his pc and amazon and setup the 5 digit code. Wasnt rea clear what it does but looks like it prevents accidents and before you can buy anything you enter the code. now my dad is a narcissist so he can never ever admit to doing something wrong or not understanding anything.  he can get mad all he wants but he is wasting alot of money. This problem turned alot worse recently so i dont know whats going on. I need to talk to him again, the two times ive talked to him he just stares at me.
Oh, wonder if they have that on amazon, thanks i never thought of that.
This. And cancel prime and say it’s not working anymore for his tv or change the password.
Yep, they are marketed on prime so you make mistakes. he likes prime tho for the free shipping. Funny thing is that I think he has two accts, just cant find the second one, it shows in his bank acct tho. Thanks may have to suggest that. I told him at dinner hes been buying alot as well as the PGA sub and he doesnt care.
Sorry to hear that altho I understand. im 62 and find that alot of the older stuff reminds me and that doesnt do any good. maybe you can find something on things she likes. like if she enjoys birds theres shows on birds,  etc. If she has  smart TV by chance and has the Youtube app in there ...Youtube has a ton of things like nature.
