Google maps for android and find my friends/find my for apple! They both use gps tracking on the phone. You would need to get his phone and have him share his location with you still but after that point, you can pretty much check at anytime.
[deleted]
try Life360
My father has Alzheimer’s and still drives occasionally, I have an AwareGPS monitor plugged into his diagnostic port. It lets me track his driving as well as speeds and hard stops. It has been a game changer for us, $20 a month for the gps, like $20 to buy the monitor. I cannot recommend this enough.

Edit: I have the app installed on my phone, I can check his location anytime.
I'll be interested to hear what folks say as we have this issue with my dad but he doesn't use a phone anymore so we can't track via an app.
Throw a Tile under his floor mats.
There is now wearable technology - watches that have GPS trackers in them specifically for the issue you’re talking about. Family can see where the person is. Very accessible in America, Germany, UK, Sweden etc. 

Where are you based?
I’m having similar concerns for my parents. Someone suggested an Apple Watch, to track location.
I saw a news story just in the last week or so about a GPS device built into a shoe sole insert.  I thought that was smart.
Life360 is good, if you’re sure that he keeps his phone powered on and with him. My mom, and a few other older folks I know only turn on their phone when they want to make a call or are expecting one. It’s a holdover from the days when phone batteries didn’t last at all, and cell phones were just for emergencies.
I thought about getting one of those small pet GPS from the wish app and putting it in my 98 year old father in law’s wallet.
Came here to recommend TILE
Neck bell. Like for a cow.
This kinda applies -- an Apple Watch is good for tracking, but I found out today that the Series 4 and up has fall detection! 

If Apple Watch Series 4 or later detects a hard fall while you're wearing your watch, it taps you on the wrist, sounds an alarm, and displays an alert. You can choose to contact emergency services or dismiss the alert by pressing the Digital Crown, tapping Close in the upper-left corner, or tapping "I'm OK." 

This seems like a game-changer for older folks. I can see getting my dad one -- although he is fearful of some tech. But he's also fallen a couple of times (when no one was around) so it might be something to consider.
If you have iphones, set up a family plan and add him on.  You’ll always be able to get his location without any apps installed and it won’t notify him.
Does he happen to have a vehicle with onstar capability?
He is still capable of driving.  He is just incredibly naive and there are people taking advantage of him and his vehicle. He lies about his whereabouts and we have no real way to track him down if something happens with the awful crowd of people he’s clinging to.
Life360 is really good for android or ios. You would have to get into his phone to set it up. You can pay to get a driving report, too.
Yes for around $7 a month you can get a complete driving and location report. Like speed, braking etc
If he’ll let you put something on his keychain you could use Tile. [thetileapp.com](https://www.thetileapp.com/en-us/)
Or shove the tile into that spot between the seat and the center armrest. You know - that no-mans land where your hand won’t quite fit into the crack to pick up the stray coins that always seem to fall there?
I ‘m in the southern US. The only thing is that this man is already distrustful of technology and would have a FIT if we insisted he wear any kind of tracking device. I’m thinking something I could discreetly put on his phone would work...as long as it stays ON, you know?
I laughed. I'll share the downvotes with you.
If he has dementia he is not safe on the roads.
If he is involved in an accident of any kind, he will be found at fault, as will his family and caregivers, for allowing a person with dementia to continue to drive. It's always going to seem too early to get him to stop driving, but it could be so much worse if it's too late.
Yeah I get you, I’d agree with another poster and go for Find My Friends (if iPhone). 

The tech I meant is a watch and you could sell it on the basis of getting his steps up etc. But totally understand, I have family members who are exactly the same. Not the model I had in mind [but this ](https://www.techsilver.co.uk/product/gps-tracking-watch-elderly-kids-dementia/?gclid=Cj0KCQiAsbrxBRDpARIsAAnnz_NDXsnQbdoesDbrQr6EIryZfXJ8rhReQyGjSq4zH8ySuaaeOeUCv7AaAsV8EALw_wcB) is similar.
Good luck!
My mother is the same. I turned on location tracking one day on her Google maps app. I've never turned it off and it's provided me peace of mind
Are you sure you’re not dealing with MY daddy?  He was sure that “they” were doing things to his computer so it didn’t work. My daughter was able to get his phone and install life360 on it and hide the app. Every now and then, we’d have to turn it back on because he enjoyed changing all the settings, but he never knew we could track him because, if he had, he’d still be screaming and he passed away in August. Good luck.
He is showing what we think are very mild symptoms, mostly involving allowing a group of people to take advantage of him. He is otherwise fully aware and sharp. 

It could also be that he’s just increasingly lonely and needs these people to feel validated. His wife just passed of Alzheimer’s so it’s the first thing our minds are jumping to. 

For whatever reasons, he’s consistently making poor judgements in character and we need to know his whereabouts in case anything happens.
Thanks so much. ❤️
Oh my gosh, that is exactly how he is.   He won’t even keep the account I made for him on Netflix. It’s honestly exhausting!  Good idea with hiding the app...I don’t actually think he’s tech-savvy enough to figure it out, so that might work!  Thanks for your help and I’m so sorry for your loss.
People have a great deal of ingenuity on masking their dementia. By the time loved ones notice it has often gone quite far. He needs to see a doctor for an assessment. My stepfather had what appeared to be mild dementia but when  he was assessed, he was in the moderate range. There were so many things he couldn't do on the test but we just never noticed, since he was agreeable and easy to get along with.
