I play music on her Alexa and we sing along with Frank Sinatra and Doris Day and John Denver. I know some mothers find a lot of comfort in a doll, but that may be when the dementia has progressed pretty far along.
I paint with my mom, but I’m not saying that works for everyone.
My grandma is the same age! 

She hated coloring, we had some success with Simon Says (the round electronic game that lights up. It will flash the lights in a sequence and then you push the buttons in the same sequence). She really enjoys Connect Four and those memory/matching games (flip over cards and try to find the matches-she likes a disney one we have). She doesn't really remember what's where with that game but she seems to enjoy it anyway.
What did she used to like to do? Is there a way to adapt that?
Knitting or crocheting, Word Search books, Fidget Toys
toys with light, color and sound? Play music for her, if its the old stuff that she grew up with or something new she responds to.
Try scrabble or word puzzles, crossword they have worked well for my grandmother!
Perhaps some simple cooking and baking?  A lot of our self-image is about being useful, so the tasks that made her feel valuable when she was younger made a little more simple may work best.
How about gardening?
Peeling potatoes and carrots, my mom can do that all day and it makes her feel useful.
I took care of a lady with dementia who had extremely high anxiety.  It was solved by giving her a dust rag and an empty can of pledge.  She would dust all day, every day, if you didn’t finally take it away from her.  She was so happy, humming while she worked.
Agreed here that playing the music she enjoyed in her youth might be soothing.
Im not particularly artistic myself! But any and all ideas are greatly appreciated!
I noticed her hand isn't very steady when we were coloring, she may also have cataracts. ( We're getting that checked out soon.) But that's a great idea! Thank you ❤
 She primarily cooked, cleaned and cared for family. A few weeks ago we went through old photos and I labeled them with names and what that persons relation to her was. She did enjoy it, but I would like to incorporate different activities to do with her.
Awesome! Thanks!
I try to ask my grandmother to help with tasks or ask how to do something. Last night, making soup, it said to set it to simmer, so I asked her to come check it. When it was time to put away the leftover soup, I asked her to help me choose the correct size bowl and she poured it in.

Otherwise, I have a hard time finding activities that aren't physical. If I ask her to do a puzzle, she'll say her hands shake too much. Play a game? Usually she'll say she has too much other stuff to do.
Gotcha, my grandma has parkinsons so her hands/arms aren't very steady. Connect Four gives her some "exercise" without it seeming like it (reaching and hand/eye coordination).
[deleted]
Thanks!
