It’s very likely the medicine. But also have her tested for a urinary tract infection ASAP. It’s very common in elderly people and it frequently causes dementia-like symptoms, including confusion and hallucinations.

My aunt was similar in that she was in her 80s and self-sufficient until she took two blood pressure pills by mistake and passed out. Her neighbor called an ambulance and they took her to the hospital. 

Within two days she was not making sense and incoherent so they announced that she had dementia and put her in a locked ward. We insisted she was fine and it was really something else. They refused to believe us and kept her there for a week, telling us they planned to transfer her to a long-term dementia care facility.

Finally someone noticed that she hadn’t urinated in a few days and they tested her, and she had a raging UTI. Once they treated the UTI, she miraculously and immediately recovered from her dementia and spent the next five years with her full mental faculties intact.
My Dad has Parkinson’s related dementia. He has hallucinations, then a day or so later he’ll tell us about this strange dream he had.  So, yes, I think the hallucinations happen in a kind of altered state.  That may be the only way they can explain it.  My Dad never believes us when we tell him that it wasn’t a dream, he actually did whatever it was. 

So, if you grandmother is having hallucinations, something is not right.  It may be a form of dementia, but maybe not Alzheimer’s.  There are so many different types of dementia.  She really needs to see a neurologist to be tested. The tests are no big deal.  He’ll ask her to remember some words and then repeat them back, after he’s talked about something else.  He’ll ask her to draw a clock and set the hands at a certain time, things like that.

But there is medicine that can help the hallucinations.  My Dad doesn’t have nearly as many as he used to.  Imagine how she feels when she experiences that, it must really scare her.  I hope you can ignore the wicked sisters and get her some help to make her feel better.
This is a tough one. None of us can say for sure whether it is or isn't Alzheimer's because we're not the doctors diagnosing your grandmother.

I will say, however, that my grandparents didn't remember their hallucinations. It's like it never happened. Each moment in the life of someone with Alzheimer's is very real to them, regardless of what is actually happening. 

Is there an impartial doctor that can officially test your grandmother?
Your mom should talk to the head nurse, and bypass the siblings. Explain exactly what you have here
Thank you for your response! that's horrible they would do that to your aunt I feel like that is what happens often. Hopefully my mom's siblings stop being stubborn and allow my mom to have a say or at least consider what she tells them, they didn't add her to the facilities list as a daughter so the staff won't give her information or listen to her at all
Thanks for the response! Yeah that's the thing my mom's siblings are diagnosing her but don't listen to my mom about actually having her diagnosed by a professional she doesn't understand why they are telling the staff she has dementia/Alzheimers without her actually being diagnosed and without this ever happening prior to being in the hospital for her leg injury... She is very sharp and remembers everything I'd argue she had a sharper memory than me and I'm 27 lol it's just those couple times that she has had hallucinations. I hope they will listen to my mom they didn't put her down as a sibling with any authority at the facility she is at and they won't listen my grandmother telling them to add her to the list they require my mom's siblings to approve which they don't want to do because they don't like that my mom is questioning what is going on and trying to get the right treatment. She's allowed to visit but nothing else.
Being in the hospital can cause that.  That’s happened with my Dad too.  It usually goes away.  It can take awhile, my Dad’s took a few weeks, but then he was back to the way he was before.  Hopefully, the same will happen to her.
I really hope so thank you for your reply!
