Guilt is very normal. But we are only human and there are limits to how much each of us can do to help. All you can do is make the best choices you can to ensure your dad is safe and cared for. I am able to live with my mother and help my father to care for her. It would be too much for one person. 

Living at home doesn't guarantee contentment. My mother (71)still asks why she is here, when she will be going home or where deceased family members are (especially her mum). She does struggle more when staying away from home as environment is so unfamiliar to her. 

Mum doesn't read magazines, books or newspapers anymore as she cannot keep plot in her head and follow along. But she still loves to look through family photo albums. I started making photo books hoping they would help her. 

On each page I put a photo and brief caption writing in 1st person in her POV. 

As she was staying in hotel the 1st page had photos of mum and dad with caption. 'My name is... I on holiday in... with my husband...

Next page had photo of mum & dad with photos of hotel I printed from website and space for dad to add room number.' We are on holiday in... Our hotel is called... We are staying in room no... '

Over the next pages I included photos of myself and my siblings with caption explaining where we all were. 'This is my daughter Sleepy Bee. She is looking after our house while we are on holiday. We will see her  when we get back on Saturday.'

I made book small enough to fit in her bag so she could carry it around. 

I was nervous that mum would react badly to the book. She tries to hide any prob let she has remembering so doesn't always like it if dad or I help her in public. But according to dad she loved it. She carried it around and would read through it several times a day. 

Perhaps you could adapt something similar for your dad? A photo book or album with photos of him, different areas of his new home, you and any other family members & friends. With brief descriptions to go with the photos.
It's normal , yes to feel guilty it's because you care deeply for the person. Unfortunately this disease is cruel and there comes a time when for folks well being they are better , by being looked after.  Just make sure you spend time with your loved one show them the that  you're there for them. A smile and a hug goes a long way.
 [https://www.griefhealingdiscussiongroups.com/](https://www.griefhealingdiscussiongroups.com/)  some great resources here, dont be shy, they are wnderful people. Ask for a reference to some books and help groups in your area. 

Its a very dificult decision. But when its for tgheir own good, their sfety then its the right decision. just be sure its a nice clean place where they take good care of him. When my Dad was in rehab after his stroke, he was completely out of it. he didnt know why he was there and that he needed to stay.  It tears your heart but you have to do whats best for him. Just go as much as you can and give him hugs and be sure he knows hes loved.

Make his room as much like home as you can and make sure he has music, his favorite music. Its not going to be the best situation from his pov but just make the best of it as you can for him.
no, it isn't easy, and yes, you are normal for feeling guilty. {{hug}} Given a little time, which definition of 'little' varies with the diagnosis, your loved one will likely forget they ever lived anyplace else, and will settle to living wherever their minds tells them they are, if that makes any sense. Like, within a couple of weeks of us moving my mom out of my house into a facility, she was 'working' there and taking the bus to her own apartment. If anything she was happier there than with me, which was great.
It’s normal to feel guilty, but realize your loved one is not capable of making important life decisions and they don’t realize they are incapable.  Just keep their best interests in mind, continue to listen to them and try to involve them in decisions as much as possible.

I’m sure there are many support groups in your area.  Alzheimers.org is a good place to find some.  Alternatively, a social worker with whatever medical group you use should have a list of resources.
its normal to feel like youre abandoning them but youre not. youre giving them a good fighting chance.
As someone who works in dementia care, this is so, so lovely.  Just reading about this book made my heart so happy.
Thank you! Mum carried the book around in her bag for months after she got back from their trip until I swopped it for an updated version. She loves looking at pictures of all her children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. 

Mum doesn't have understand concept of how time passes any more. If someone leaves a room or leaves the house she has no idea how long they have been gone or when she will see them again. 10 minutes after their visit feels the same to her as 10 days or 10 weeks.

Having the book is a comfort. It reassures her that she knows where her family is and that she will see them again.
