In 2017 my father was put into hospice, I thought I was dealing with all the grief emotions during that time. Then he graduated from hospice which led to a whole host of other emotions including his anger because he had told me to just get rid of his stuff, which I ½ did. Anyhow, I thought I was prepared for him dying because of the hospice time. 
He died 2 months ago of something completely different. I wasn’t ready after all. 
I don’t know that we can ever be ready until it happens. 
The hardest thing is 2 months later and friends don’t really think it should be an issue anymore. The only person who checks in regularly is the one that was with me that day. 

Grief comes in waves. Nobody grieves the same but we all feel it 100%. 
Try to see him while you have a chance during this time. If not try to take time for yourself. 

None of this is probably helpful, just know you aren’t alone and as abnormal as it may feel it may also be fairly normal.
My father went into the hospital on Oct 2018 with pneumonia. They ended up finding a whole host of problems, and they gave us a 3 to 6 month window.

We had him for about two more weeks. He was 66.

I was very distant during those two weeks due to the initial prognosis. I was depressed, but i genuinely thought i had more time. None of it is easy. The finality of it all its tough to deal with, but the one thing i’d stress is that you use this remaining time wisely. You have time create new memories.
I'm so sorry you're going through this, it's awful. I'd like to recommend a book that helped me through a recent loss - it's called [It's OK That You're Not OK: Meeting Grief and Loss in a Culture That Doesn't Understand](https://www.amazon.com/Its-That-Youre-Not-Understand/dp/1622039076)

People grieve in different times and different ways. I hope you'll find ways to be gentle with yourself. The fact that those around you don't get it doesn't mean that your feelings are not valid. Especially with a disease like vascular dementia, which impacts communication and identity - in some ways your dad is already gone, and having to witness the final chapter of this disease is incredibly hard.

Wishing you peace and strength in the days ahead.
I am sorry you are going to have to go through this. I have not experienced this, but I have lost a parent to cancer. I would say try not to dwell on the negative and the eventuality of the situation. 

Instead, treat each day as a gift and something to be cherished. Try to live in the present and enjoy your father and his company. Tell old stories, ask questions about his life....just try to enjoy some happiness now before he is gone....
I am so sorry about your father, and that your people are not being more supportive.  I'm currently dealing with this same situation with my mother although I'm fortunate enough to live close - and to have family / co-workers willing to be understanding.  

I'm distracted, losing things left and right. My eating habits have changed.  I'm having panic / anxiety attacks that I've never had before. It's very, very, very hard.

Your feelings - both emotional and physical - are absolutely valid and appropriate for this situation - and I hope you're able to find some support that understands this.
Yes!  It is anticipatory grief and current grief.  It's normal.  Anyone who criticizes you isn't mean, they just don't understand.  A big thing you might need to prepare for is not crying as much as you think you will once he passes.  That would be because you have already grieved a lot.
My husband was in hospice for just over a year. Neurological disorder that was an automatic entry to hospice. We knew he probably had 1 to 2 years. We both dealt with the pre-death grieving. 

It (grief) was not a linear progression. 

Yes, I had “accepted” that his death was inevitable. We had time to grieve together for what we weren’t going to have and to say all we needed to say, including goodbye. And still - I ‘lost’ the 6 months to a year after his actual death. 

So, yeah, you can/will go through anticipatory grief/pre-death grieving. You will probably still be gobsmacked by various emotions and intensity of the emotions when your dad actually dies. Everyone goes through it differently and alone. But, if it is any comfort, others are going/have gone through it and although we may not be able to articulate it well - we understand and empathize.
This was years ago, but I understand what you are feeling. My father had a cerebral hemorrhage right before Thanksgiving and was in the hospital in critical condition. They took him in for surgery and he never woke up. We spent weeks before Christmas traveling back and forth 75 miles to visit him knowing full well he would never wake up. We went anyway. Christmas led into New Years and beyond and my father remained in a coma wasting away day by day. I was still trying to work full-time and take care of my family (a 1st grader and a baby), holding up my mom and driving her back and forth to the hospital every other day. My emotions were all over the place. I felt like I wore my grief on my face, but I guess I kept it together OK. Not really much support from friends or other family.  People kind of disappear when things like this happen. I must say that when my father finally passed it was a relief. I tried not to feel guilty about that, but I do think I grieved a lot while he was still physically on this earth. I still felt sadness and a large measure of grief after but knowing he would be dying did allow me to feel a lot of those feelings in advance. 

I've also lost 3 family members suddenly in a terrible car accident. Not sure which was worse, but it's all part of life . . . . and death. We all will go some time in some way, so we better get busy enjoying the time we have because the future is the great unknown. 

My heart goes out to you, OP. Please think about getting some therapy or counseling if that is available to you.
I'm sorry you are going through this. My dad died from Parkinsons with Dementia a few years ago, after having a diagnosis for almost 10 years.

I think one of the hardest parts about dementia is that you are constantly grieving the death of the person as they slip away. Trying to stay positive and appreciate the pieces that were left of them and the time you had left with them is always balanced with the reality that the person you knew is already "dead" in many ways.

There's no right way to grieve this situation in my opinion. Peace and comfort to you my friend. There are soooo many of us walking around with dementia related hurts - you are not alone.
