My husband used to long for duties, but wasn’t up to much.  We would make pies together with him rolling out the dough to cap the pie.  I would have the rest mostly ready but it gave him a feeling of accomplishment when it came out of the oven.  I also had a jar of change he would sort into smaller jars for me.  He was unable to roll coins but he could put like with like.  He never seemed to catch onto the fact that I often just gave him a peck on the forehead for helping carried the jars out of the room to dump them all back into the mixed jar and would give it back to him in a few days when he was bored again.   

He also enjoyed making jewelry out of magazine pages.  You take a sure with a design or picture on it and cut it into long thin triangular strips for him and give home a crotchet needle and elmers glue.  He would coat it in glue and warp it around the needle and slip it off the end and later string them together to make a necklace or bracelet or glasses holder.  This became gifts for people who did kind things for him.   

He also got into bird watching despite his best efforts.  I put a humming bird and thistle seed feeder outside his bedroom window.  I eventually put one of those sheets of magnification used for reading in front of one of the feeders to help him see the humming birds.  

He loved to watch YouTube videos of Simon’s cat and could watch them for hours (simple line drawing cartoons of what being a cat owner feels like.  They feature very little talking and easy to follow) 

He was unable to follow traditional movie plots and became bored with them easily but could watch animal documentaries as there is no real plot.  I don’t think there was a Sir David Attenborough that we had not seen.  

We did some gardening but found it to be a bad fit. 

We would draw out normal tasks to take out long bits of the day.  Dressing I would lay out 3 tops, three pants and let him choose from a basket of socks.  He had many many colorful socks to choose from and would have to unroll bunches to see which he wanted to wear.  I would roll them back up when done so his fingers got the work out tomorrow. This tool picking g out clothes from seconds to up to 20 mins.  It could be boring for me but he enjoyed having some control and making choices for himself.  (He would also help me match and roll on laundry days) 

If you have a cat get one of those sticks with fabric or a laser pointer and tell him the cat needs more exercise. The vet has asked for 20 mins of play time a day.  Everybody wins with this one!
Using one of those round knitting circles to make hats for babies in the hospital
Look into Project Linus. It is a nonprofit that makes blankets for children in difficult situations. He may be able to work with a group to tie the knots on blankets, while someone else cuts the strips.
Painting bird feeders?

Go to a craft store and look in their wooden section . There are lots of cheap wood items to paint or put together. 

For volunteering, perhaps putting together supply packs for vets or the homeless?
Dont know if hes still abe to make things. But he could do it sitting down with a roller chair. make some crafts or birdhouses and such, donate them to a charity or a school or something that they could sell em or the kids could study birds by puuting a birdhouse in their yard.  could he perhaps teach a basic class on crafting? If he likes to read he could read to kids at the library. 

Does he like to garden? If he cant get out in the garden itself then potted plant gardening or set up a raised planter on the edge and corners of the patio?
Thank you for all the great ideas!
I don't even know how to make those, but I'll look into it! Thanks
He always had a big garden. Potted plants seem to be the best option currently.
Cool. maybe partner with some school and teach the little kids how to pot and grow plants. If you had the resources you could put in some raised plantbeds, add handrails if that would help or if he would rather sit make em that height. I miss my old garden.
