You need to talk to his dr for about anxiety medication and/or mood stabilizers. Some also help cause drowsiness, so it improves sleep.
You're so right about sleep deprivation. It's SO hard.

My immediate thought is to have your mum talk to your grandad's doctor. When my mum was still at home, she was so anxious all the time. Her doctor gave her a really mild sedative that we gave her with supper, and she'd nod off around 9. She'd still get up once or twice, but better then 5-6 times.

The hard news here is that my mum only started sleeping through the night completely when she moved into long term care. I think she had a lot of anxiety at home, and she never was able to fully relax. At the care home, after a bit of a tough adjustment, she leaned hard into the routine and mostly gets her 8 hours. 

The takeaway from this is maybe that your mum should regiment life at home as much as possible. Wake up at the same time, meals at the same time, same kind of structure in activities (morning outside activity, afternoon social activity, tv after dinner... or something). It could help your grandad a lot.
If you’re in a legal state I would try giving him edibles. I make brownies for my mom and they soothe her anxiety completely and help her sleep. Her doctor said he’s so relieved we thought to do that because any meds he could prescribe would make her into a zombie.
[deleted]
[deleted]
I ended giving my mother in law CBD, put lights on the direction of the bathroom and just locked any other doors to just funnel her on its way. 

Depending on anxiety due to bad knee she would wake up about 4 times (at least once for really going to pee). But since she could only go following the light that helped the rest of us a lot.

The CBD stopped her nightmares and crazy talk the 6 months she was with us. Sadly she is with my brother in law and his level of care last two months as made her a bit unstable.

Dreading the 4 days she will be with us at the end of the month, before going to another of my sisters in law house.

That's all I can contribute, good luck.
I guess the main concern with adding more medication is that his health is poor on top of the dementia so he is already on multiple medications
Yes, I'm hoping that once the routine is set it will help him relax.
If it was up to me I'd 100% recommend it, but my very conservative family would clutch their pearls way to much to even consider it. It's a shame because it's legal here.
He's a fall risk so my mom is worried if she doesn't check on him he will try to get up himself and fall. Such a tough situation.
I was thinking she could ask about that.
Elderly are the fastest-growing population of cannabis users because it does such good for anxiety, inflammation, and pain.  You might want to reach out to your local big Dispensary and see if there are any groups of elder folks who could talk with your "very conservative family"... because a lot of "very conservative" church-goers will likely be in the mix.  When you can't sip your coffee because the arthritis is too bad, and NSAIDS are too hard on your kidneys, and a little edible does the job but doesn't get you high... a lot of those Very Conservative Folks find wiggle room just big enough to slip through.  

Alternately, I can recommend a book that describes exactly how to successfully introduce the idea to older folks.  It's not like high-CBD pot does anything besides end the pain and help you sleep.
Yeah, I'm in a legal state and we blend a bit of an oil extraction into our patient's coffee every morning, and sometimes an afternoon (decaf) tea to help with sundowning.  

It's been a *big* help to us, not just for the aches and pains of being old and the anxiety, but in little ways, like the drymouth effect making it easier to keep her hydrated (and slightly improving her appetite).  The family notices a difference on days she misses her dose.  

But her family was a bit easier to convince. Two of her children have grown their own plants for a couple years now.
My dad was against it until he saw how well it works for her. Now he sees it as a blessing! If it gets to the point where the problem becomes unbearable I would encourage you to try it and ask for forgiveness after. If it works I bet you anything they’ll change their minds about it.
