It's bite the bullet now or later.  I would just go do it - maybe she can live near you.
You may need to look into www.CareGiver.org. They have a toll free number that you can call. I recently posted something in r/dementia so look at my post history and there’s some great comments in there that may be of help to you.
She needs someone to take care of her.  You have these choices: 

* You go live near her.  (move into her place?  Buy a place together?)
* She comes and lives near you.  (put her on your health insurance?)
* You figure something else out.  (Work with in-state agencies and hope someone there cares? )
Look for senior centers close to her, they are a wealth of knowledge and resources. Definitely become her POA and freeze assets and handle everything. 

Get her signed up with 

[meals on wheels](http://www.mealsonwheelsnys.org) 

Here is a NY resource to tap:

[office of aging NY](https://aging.ny.gov) 

Have you sorted out Medicare/Medicaid?

There are so many resources available, it is just finding and utilizing. It is best to keep them in their own home as long as safe for everyone. When I say everyone, I mean neighbors too. If she becomes a threat to herself or others it is time to move her. If you are planning to come over and handle Guardianship etc. go ahead and tour potential places to move her, so that when the time comes you are not scrambling. If she is of relatively sound mind, you can bring her by to check out your top 2-3 picks. 

I am so sorry. It is stressful being far away and dealing with this disease.

Another resource:
[ALZ.org](https://www.alz.org/help-support/resources/online-tools)
It sounds like you need outside help now. You also need to know what resources are available to you, you can contact her local branch of the Alzheimer's association, an elder law attorney in her area, and potentially, one where you are. If she isn't already, then she is very quickly coming up on a time when she should not be living alone.  If she's not feeding herself or taking her medication then she's also probably not bathing either, and she definitely shouldn't be driving. If you can afford it you can hire people to be there but then you also have to trust those people to do their job. Assisted living with a memory care unit may also be an option.
If you can get her into memory care, I would do that now. If she’s able to write her name, have the POA changed to yourself. If she is able to make coffee, she should be sound enough to do this, even if she doesn’t understand what she’s signing.

Gaining guardianship is time consuming and expensive, at least in Ohio. 

Best wishes to you.
Goodluck to you and your mother. hope things can be resolved for yall.
she wont survive the trip.  Its 27 hours in an airplane and airports and medicare doesnt work overseas.
wow thank you so much.

id love to chat we have a lot of similarities, tho im a little older, and worked thru a lot of what you are going thru now personally.

you helped me i might be able to help you.

The way you describe your mom is almost exact what im dealing with, but im doing it from literally on the other side of the planet.

Thanks a very much for the ideas and please do pm me.
thank you for taking time to read and comment

she wont survive in asia.  its too hot, and her health is not good enuf for the trip

medicare is state run.  it does not work overseas.

i  am working with state agencies but they are reluctant to start guardianship

i am seeking legal representation to be appointed guardianship.  i believe this trumps poa, but im waiting on lawyer to review situation.

rite now there i have very little control.  my hope is we can get an emergency order in court, and within the next 3 months i can start making care decisions on her behalf.  At that point i book flight to come back and get her care.

I think right now the best i can do is make sure shes fed.

after last weeks episode she is now scared to drive, but she will forget that driving scared her tomorrow.
thank you for kind words and resource suggestions.  i was able to contact office of aging last year.  wait list for meals on wheels very long.  she finally got prioritized and meals will start in 1 month.

i ordered her silvercare 2 person meals...she had one today and she cried cause she couldnt eat it all and she appologized to me.  I smiled and gently reminded her a few times they are double portion, and she not expected eat whole thing.

She just hates the idea of nursing home or becoming a burden on me.  I said to her loving that she mom and raised me to be a responsible adult.  In times of need families out aside all other problems and work together to take care of our loved ones that need help.  I says mom you are loved, and its your turn.  Its ok.  And she cried.  She said im the only one who cares.  Which makes me sad.

I am in contact with social services but they have limits in her area. All programs they offer are supplemental.

She asked if i was in her shoes would i want to go to a nursing home.  I teased her a little and said if i was surrounded by cute young nurses who whipe my bun bun and clean my junk, id be very ok with that, if i was in her shoes.  She laughed.

She says i know you care.  I know you want best for me.  I just dont want that.

I told her i will do everything i can to keep her in her home as long as i can.  At some point if care becomes extreme we have to bite the bullet and  improve the quality of life for her.

"I know"

It was the first honest no bullshit conversation i have had with her in over a year.

She knows shes getitng very close to needing full time care.

Thru the cloud of this disease and now with a full belly, she can think clearly and see the writing on the wall.... or at least i hope so.

I dont wish this on no one.

I am waiting to hear back from attorney and make next steps to get her the care she needs.


Thank you again.
what about getting her health insurance where you live?
Sign her up for Meals On Wheels?
Of course there is peace and solidarity in numbers right?
73 in asia very difficult.

medicare doesnt work and most international insurance plans end at 70.

but thank you for the suggestion
thank you yes i did.

last june

waiting list was 9+ months.

i was able to get bumped on list after i asked for a reprioritization.

they visited and agreed.

for now, she has plenty of delivered low sodium food, a case of ensure (shes never tried it so crossing my fingers), cereal bars, and a box of her favorite candy almond joys.

my hope is it brings some comfort and less worry and no more hungry tummy.

her first meal from mow will be delivered on march 6
Sad ☹️
Excellent.  What about doordash, or other meal delivery services?  Are her bills paid?
Thanks - she lives in a very small remote town.
there is no door dash or uber eats.
Good question about the bills. That is something else they drop as they start to decline.
