There’s no guidebook to help in this decision. Every person takes a certain amount of convincing. I j fortunately had to partially force my mother into a supportive living facility. It was long overdue. I took her to visit three separate facilities. One she cried during the lunch we’d been invited to. It was difficult. The other two it was easier. I think taking them to visit one of these places or multiple would help immensely. Maybe make a few calls and set up visits with just the caretakers of the afflicted and see how the place is. Feel it out. Next step, if you like the place, is bringing the afflicted for a visit. They will want to give a mental test as well to see what kind of needs will be required as most places have different levels of faculty. Call around and set up meetings with facility managers. Exhaust all options. Certain places will have different vibes than others. And follow your gut. And your wallet.
It took me almost a year to get my parents to move out of their home to a place with 3 stages of care - independent living with weekly maid service and a dining facility, assisted living in an adjacent building if/when they needed it, and memory care if/when.

They were fine living "on their own" which consisted of calling me with no warning multiple times a year to travel cross country to stay with them for weeks/months, leaving my own home and husband. At one point they argued that I could move in with them permanently. "But my husband ..." "He can move in too." I explained he couldn't, his own aging mother where we live depends on him. "Why can't she move near us too?" 

That conversation was actually great because it highlighted for me that they had no concept of trampling anyone's boundaries whatsoever for their own convenience, to the point of expecting multiple families to be uprooted and move cross country rather than just admitting they couldn't live independently any more. So it was instrumental in helping me establish boundaries for myself, which I had to do for them to realize they needed assistance and if it wasn't coming from me they were gonna have to make other arrangements.

It sounds like that's where your family's at. As long as your parents continue to provide the assistance your grandparents need, they aren't going to agree to hiring care. That's just the reality. So the next step maybe isn't convincing the grandparents they need help, so much as having a long conversation with your mother about how to set boundaries, how to say no, how to be the asshole short term so her parents are cared for safely without destroying her own marriage in the process. And letting her know that you'll have her back when she decides to do that. It's no good if she refuses to cook dinner for them and you or another sibling steps in to cook it instead, while badmouthing her. You all have to have a united front. 

Do get financial power of attorney in place though ASAP so that it's legal for your mother to handle the bill paying for them and get her added to their bank account and as an authorized user to their credit card (assuming she's financially trustworthy of course). That's one thing you won't want to trust to a hired caretaker.
I don't know if you can convince anyone. We just had to force the issue. My dad insisted they were fine and wouldn't take our advice. Then, he died unexpectedly, which left my mom alone all day and night if one of us didn't go stay with her. Her memory care doctor advised us to set up security cameras at her exit doors and in the kitchen. We turned off the gas to her oven/stove, but she figured out how to turn it back on. I'd go up and cook meals for her and leave them in the fridge with instructions on how many minutes to microwave it for. She'd eat yogurts and bananas and not touch anything I made. It reached a point she was eating 8 bananas a day and a 12 pack of yogurts, so we knew something had to change. 

Watching camera footage during the day, I'd see her go outside for hours and come in completely sunburned hours later. I'd watch her let her dogs out with her, she'd come in without the dogs. Hours later, the dogs would be howling in the middle of the night to come in. Or, they'd never get let out and in the middle of the night, she'd be screaming at them for going to the bathroom at one of the doors. She used a Windex wipe as a makeup remover and couldn't see for a couple hours. She was using body wash as moisturizer and blistered the hell out of her skin in the process.

We had to get her and her dogs out of that situation and into a safer environment. We put the house up for sale after we'd moved her into assisted living. She hated it. She was not happy with us at all, but we just kept saying it was for her safety. She refused to live with one of us, so we had no other option. After moving her out, we discovered how bad her housekeeping had gotten. She was always cleaning, but she wasn't really cleaning. The amount of dust, pet fur, and dirt I swept up was appalling. Mouse poop was everywhere in her cupboards.

It's hard, but you just have to do it. Kind of like ripping a Band-Aid off.
This is one of the most difficult parts of the transition from doing everything yourself to needing help, realizing you need help.  Is there any way to hire someone from a service and just pay for it yourself (or have family members chip in) for a few weeks?  Perhaps if your grandfather sees that it is helping he may more receptive to it (and be willing to pay as well).  Is there a day care that your grandmother can go to locally?  We did that for my mom and it was great.  They even offered to shower her, but I did that and didn't mind (and she didn't either).  Even if she only goes a few days a week for a few hours.  If you aren't in a super rural area there may be a place, check with your local area social services for aging.  If you are in the U.S. you can look on NextDoor for help as well.
Thanks so much to everybody who has given input, it feels so nice to know there are people out there who understand and can share a similar experience. 
My grandparents live directly behind my parents. Because this is the situation, it’s difficult for my parents to turn the other cheek. There is a concept of always having to go over for a visit every night and prepare dinner that my parents feel obligated to, but I can tell it’s starting to wear on them and their marriage. 
My mom is so sweet, and it’s been so hard for her to see her mother disappear into the shell she is today. It’s difficult for her to say no, knowing that if she doesn’t cook, they won’t eat. 
How do my parents start to go down the path of getting power of attorney? I have no idea what the process entails, but it is probably what will need to happen next. 
My parents live in an area that isn’t totally rural, but not urban either. I’m not sure if adult day cares exist and the other issue is money. My parents can’t really afford anything fancy in terms of care. Ultimately, my mom is going to have to convince my grandparents to sell their house in order to pay for relocating them. 
The problem is getting everybody to understand that’s what needs to be done, and it’s so difficult to reason with my grandpa, he will just always change the subject and brush it off. It’s possible in home care might have to be the first line of consideration.
My family paid for hired service for a certain amount of time as a (forced) gift for new year (or a birthday, etc). It helped the transition, my grandparents quickly got used (and dependent) to it and never looked back. It's worth a try
I am in a very similar situation as your mom, and just recently moved my mom into memory care after cooking and cleaning for her and my stepdad for about ten years.  It's been three weeks and I've felt awful knowing she wants to come "home" although when she is with me she doesn't know where she is and asks when she's going home.

Anyway, more importantly for you, if your grandpa is a military vet that served during any period of wartime, they'd be eligible for a monthly stipend of around $1200 - not sure of amount.  If he is eligible - you don't want to sell the house!  I have contact info for the guy I used to help me apply for the benefit and let me know if you need it.
