 [https://www.medicare.gov/nursinghomecompare/search.html?](https://www.medicare.gov/nursinghomecompare/search.html?) 

Nursing home compare lets you look at the safety inspection records done by Medicare.
I think the Alzheimer's Association has resources and help as well. You can look up a local office.
There's a very good service here in Dallas called Senior Living Specialists.
Most cities have placement agents that help for free. They can give you a list of prices. There are reviews on various websites, but I think I also appreciate talking to neighbors if you can. When I have asked on places like NextDoor or local FB groups I am in that has given me the best feedback.
I found it really REALLY difficult to do research without going to an agency. It was frustrating. I did all the things the folks here recommend plus I found this senior care customer ratings website: [Ro and Steve](https://roandsteve.com/) \- they had all the memory care facilities listed that I was interested in but not all of them had customer reviews yet. I hope that helps your search!
I would say this is the most accurate way! Also check yelp. 

As someone who works in nursing homes... I would suggest going to the homes that you want to place your loved one in. Ask for tours. Ask questions about care, shower schedule, staffing schedule, how they handle different situations (falls, sickness, resident interactions). Check activities! See if there are things that your loved one is going to like doing there! See if there is a chance that residential care is a better option for them! 

Most of all though, look at the faces of the residents and staff. Are the residents well cared for? Are the happy? And the staff, do they seem happy? Overworked? Overtired? 

I know these are all things that seem like common sense. But I work in agency healthcare. And I've been placed in many reisdential care settings, but it always amazes me when people tell me it isn't what they expected. When asked why, most state that staff and residents did not seemed cared about on tour. Your loved ones need to be where they are cared about!!!!
Beautiful. Thank you.
Great idea. Thanks!
Thanks, I should have specified near Philly but I will look for a similar service.
Nice site, I'll check it out. Thanks!
Exactly what the above poster said and also use your nose. If you smell a lot of urine or feces, run. I don't mean a little whiff here and there, that happens occasionally but it shouldn't be the predominant smell. Look under beds and in corners, is the floor clean? If they're not paying attention to that they're not likely to be paying attention to your loved one's care.

If you can, visit someone there without letting them know you're "scouting" places. No warning means they're not going to control what you see so much.
Thanks so much. I will definitely do this.
Also great. Thanks.
