Medicaid and then assisted living. I think that's the answer. 

Please consult a good social worker.
Speak to an elder attorney ASAP. Protect any assets she has, and have her help you financially in the meantime. I see you’re in California , google for an agency for aging/senior care. In Michigan it’s called Area Agency on Aging 1B. They might be able to help. 

Sending you love and light - remember to breathe and to take care of yourself.
I am so sorry.  I am sending love & understanding your way.  <3
I agree with the other poster, contact an elder care attorney - make sure they specialize in Elder Care. They know all of the ins and outs for ways to qualify for Medicaid when income is too high.  They can create a trust with a nursing home.  There are numerous things they can do. This is what they do.  It is worth the visit.  It will give you great peace of mind.
Where are you located?
If I could get on Medicaid put her in a nursing home and she didn’t call me and the home was actually able to take care of her, where I didn’t have to be there multiple times per week it would be worth it. But that has never been my experience in assisted living and board and care homes. So all I can do really is wait for her to decline and try to make as much money and as quickly as possible as I can — which is tremendous pressure and stress.
Good advice.  You have to impoverish her to get help.  If you are very wealthy, you can afford to get old.  If you are very poor, you are ok in getting old.  Not great but ok.  It when you are in the Middle that you are in trouble.
California. It’s hard, stranger. She has a pension which makes her income too high to qualify for Medicaid, but her pension is far below the cost for an assisted living memory care program (about double her income including social security), or a nursing home. She can barely afford a board and care facility but she got injured twice when we tried two different ones. So now she lives with me and I’m struggling to afford help while maintaining my sanity. The worst is I’m afraid for the day she needs 24/7 care, which currently, I cannot afford at all. Anyways just ranting. Sorry.
Here's a link for qualifying for Medicaid when over the income limit. [Link](https://www.medicaidplanningassistance.org/medicaid-eligibility-california/amp/#exceed-limits)
I believe it should be possible to work around the income limit, but you'd need to talk to a professional.

Edit: Adding in that the two people who helped me the most were the woman who was handling my grandmother's medicaid application and a lawyer from a nonprofit senior citizen's law office. It is a HUGE headache getting approved for Medicaid, but it's completely worth it!
Thanks. My problem is I’ve been told that California doesn’t give out assistance for assisted living or in home assistance, only nursing homes once you qualify for Medicaid. I actually think putting her in a nursing home would make my situation worse.
Just interested, how would moving her to a nursing home worsen your situation?
Last year I tried two different assisted living homes and 4 different group / board and care homes. At all these places she would get so anxious that I would then have to come to calm her down, inevitably. She would frequently call 9-1-1. Then one of the places overmedicated her to calm her down which created a string of further hospitalizations. I have been trying to sue them since. Was a disaster. So factoring in the fact that she has resisted every facility she’s been to / been injured at each of them — she did not have dementia before these facilities, it was only the injuries as a result of the medication issues at the facilities that created the dementia symptoms she now has per her neurologist — with the financial costs of a nursing home, it seems a nursing home would only worsen things. Once she gets to a point where she can’t bathe / feed herself (not there yet), I will have no choice. But until then doesn’t seem worth it financially.
There should be no money coming from you towards a nursing home. Medicaid will come in and take your grandmother's money, but you should not have to pay for anything. That being said, your view on nursing homes is pretty similar to my own. I've seen one grandmother die in a very upscale nursing home and now am watching my other grandmother die in a medicaid one. It's hard no matter what.

I can't tell you what to do, I can only share my personal experience. I decided to move my grandmother into a nursing home when I realized that my mother was killing herself being the primary for my grandmother. Even with our whole family helping, medicaid, hospice, and a medicaid caregiver, the stress was causing my mother to get sick more frequently and worse each time. I was just the part time caregiver and I'm convinced the stress advanced some of my own health problems. Maybe you're not at that point, but I want to give you a heads up. Your grandmother will not understand the toll her care takes on you. My own grandmother does not see it. I'm fully convinced that if my grandmother was able to understand, she would not want my mom to take care of her anymore either. What parent wants their child to die from the stress of caring for them? So much of end of life care sucks. You are faced with a thousand impossible decisions every day. Whatever choice you make, please be kind to yourself.
Thank you so much for this post. I’m definitely feeling the stress and it’s still relatively early days. Problem is I don’t have much help. The future worries me. Called elder law attorneys today. Thank you again for sharing.
Can I ask how old is your grandmother?
Caregiving can be a life destroying amount of stress. In some ways, I feel like end of life care is a black hole, sucking in anything it can touch. Such a difficult position to be in with your loved ones. My heart goes out to you. Reaching out to the lawyers is a fantastic first step. I wish I had called earlier, they demystified a lot of the Medicaid process. Still ridiculously hard, but less than it would have been otherwise.
It really can. I am beyond over living with my mother. I have no privacy. Everywhere I go, she’s right there! Lol. I tell her I want her to go to a nursing home, she won’t go and simply says: “Don’t worry I won’t live long.”
