Hey I am so sorry that you are facing this. 
I have aging parents too and while I am not with them. It is frustrating because they won't even listen to suggestions or advice. If you need anytime to vent or chat about it I am here PM me as I too am in desperate need of some support. Thanks.
I wonder if you could call Adult Protective Services? Maybe a social worker. Luis get assigned to your family and go speak to your mom? It’s hard to feel helpless...and yet, sometimes we are.
Also, think about how they are adults and can make decisions on their own, even if those lead to disaster.  You can't force them to do things unless adult protective services does it.
What if you tell them that your goal is to extend the time that they're able to live safely in their own home?
If your dad wants out he doesn’t need her permission.  See if he wants to go someplace on his own.
One thing to look into is "Parkinson's Boxing" no, we don't hit each other but it is an exercise program to help those with Parkinson's with movement and balance.   As a friend put it, her grandkids are psyched "Nana goes to boxing!" as yoga doesn't sound as cool, but we do a lot of stretching.

I can understand the dynamic all too well but until they want to change, not much you can do.

Do make sure he has his "Aware in Care Kit" with current medication and a list of what to take.  The link explains the details:

[https://www.reddit.com/r/Parkinsons/comments/deljfx/best\_outcome\_for\_hospitalization/](https://www.reddit.com/r/Parkinsons/comments/deljfx/best_outcome_for_hospitalization/)
My dad had Parkinson's and my mother cared for him at home until he passed away. But she had 24/7 aides, and even with that it was exhausting and stressful and frustrating. It's not the kind of thing that an elderly woman can handle alone, especially if he falls and she has to help him get up, she could hurt herself too. 

What I recommend, if they will go for it, is to check out whether there's a Parkinson's group at your local community center, hospital, JCC or whatever. Being with other Parkinson's patients and caregivers, and hearing what they go through and listening to the advice they offer may really wake your mom up to the need to bring in help. And, those folks are the best sources of specific information for help, they can recommend aides, helpful products, etc. The key is to educate your parents without having someone lecture them or get exasperated by them, so get them out to a group if possible, where btw they also do fun activities for the patients.
I have said that. My mom doesn’t want to hear it, or doesn’t seem to care.
He doesn’t want out. He wants to stay in his home as long as possible.
That’s a good idea. I know I could get my dad to go, but my mom has given up and hasn’t left the house in over a year. She has chronic pain of various kinds, is almost deaf, and is going blind but won’t go see any doctors about it for real solutions. There’s no way she would go. But my dad I think would enjoy it.
