I’m very sorry. He is so young as are you.

Okay a favorite song of his. Sometimes you get a glimpse of them this way.  Hugs
I am so sorry.  My husband has FTD, he is 59.  Our son is 23 and our daughter 25.  We feel like we have lost who he was as well.  We try to connect with him  in any way possible.  Humor, movies, music, or just being with him.  Have you looked at the aftd.org site?  They also have a facebook page that you might find helpful.
So hard.  My father was diagnosed with early onset Dementia Unspecified because we have no idea what kind ... but he began showing serious symptoms in very early 50's...
He was diagnosed at 59.

My father is gone.  He's delusional, he has "made up" horrible scenarios about myself that have ruined my wonderful relationship with him. 
He's just not the man who raised me and it's a mourning process I just don't want to go through while he's still alive. 

I have to remember fondly the man he was and treat the man is now respectfully like a stranger.  The love is there... it'll never fade but it's so hard and I'm sorry you're dealing with this. So sorry.
Forgive me if I ramble here are - caregiving is exhausting as I know you can attest.  

Ideas for how to spend meaningful time with your Dad are difficult to nail down without knowing a bit about who he was earlier in his life (& admittedly even armed with such knowledge there are no guarantees of success).  You can try to tailor activities around his prior interests - did he love fishing, woodworking , photography or maybe golfing?  Whatever he enjoyed in the past may be worth considering, with modifications for safety’s sake if necessary.  

My wife was diagnosed with Frontotemporal Dementia’s four years ago at the age of 56.  In hindsight we have attributed some earlier peculiar behaviour to this condition, and I imagine that your experience is similar.  Helplessly watching her inevitable decline has been devastating to me and to our four children.  Communication with her has become quite superficial as she loses the ability to express herself effectively, while at the same time becoming hypersensitive to genuine inquiries seeking clarity.  Our girls are 18 & 20 and are both still living at home.  For Christmas they put together a family photo album, and going through this together, and showing it to friends and other family members has been nice for us.  You might consider a similar project.  

Speak with your mom or with your Dad’s siblings if he has any to get some info on some significant family events that you could ask your Dad about.  He may recall them or not, but even more likely he’ll combine events or add elements which didn’t exist in fact, and that’s alright.  Just roll with it and acknowledge that his feelings and having positive interactions now are paramount.  

Lean on your friends and other family members, and continue to post here.  This evil condition leads to a sense of isolation for those whom it affects, so let’s mitigate that by being here for each other.  An earlier comment mentioned theaftd.org , and there are other resources depending on where you are.  Here in Canada the Alzheimer Society is a good one.  As a parent to young people in your exact situation I found the documentary “Much Too Young” very interesting (link: https://www.tvo.org/video/documentaries/much-too-young-feature-version ).

Best of luck.  You are in my thoughts.
Thank you for this
