 

>How to get her to stay in bed?

This is a common problem.  Contact her GP and ask about which drugs she will need.  You will also need to keep her from sleeping during the day.  Until she can get sleep meds, you could try indica cannabis but check with the GP first, it reacts horribly with two common dementia meds. 

&#x200B;

>How do the care homes manage?

They have shifts that go there TO WORK every 8 hours.  So there's someone awake and aware and ready to help.  You don't.  Do not compare your system to that system.
As far as I know, care homes use drugs (sleeping drugs) and also fixate people to the bed, or use a bed bar if that's enough.

I don't think this is the answer you are looking for...
But taking a look into sleep medication  for her might be worth a shot?
I had the same problem with my mom who has the same kind of dementia as your nan. My mom's doctor said we could give her a low dose of melatonin. It hasn't been 100% effective, but it has helped a lot. She sleeps through the night much more now. If you get a chance to bounce the idea off her doctors, maybe they can say if they think it's a good idea or not. Good luck!
I am a nursing assistant in a specialized memory unit so 100% of my residents fall under the dementia umbrella. I also work the evening shift 3pm-11pm. I try to get a routine to get them to bed. Dinner is always from 5-6 pm, then we clean up (wash hands/face) then we go to the toilet, brush teeth or clean dentures, change into pajamas and tuck goodnight. And it's like this every night. Establishing a routine is very helpful because even though they may have memory issues repetition always helps. And you always want to start small, try spraying lavender on her pillows if that doesn't work you could try (with the approval of her doctor) melatonin or CBD oil. As for the man telling her to get up, instead of orientating her you could ask her about the man. Because while we know that there is no one there, it is very real to her and it can be very difficult to discern reality from an ideation.
Why is she getting up?  Does she need to pee a few times in the middle of the night?  Is the light bothering  her and making her  think it's  daytime?  Is she naturally a night owl and going to bed too early for her routine? Do you need to be alerted to her waking or is someone else in the house responsible for night time assistance?  I ask because if you are not, use earplugs.
Thank you, I will try the GP
Thank you
Are you in UK? I've googled melatonin and it looks great but you have to get it on prescription here and our doctor is not very helpful :-( 
We actually had the doctor out a week ago and she was nice but ineffectual. Kept asking nan questions like she didn't have dementia. I told the doctor in advance that I thought nan had anxiety and her test for that was to just outright ask if nan had anxiety and depression. Nan just said no because she had no idea what they meant! Very annoying
Sometimes it is to use the toilet, sometimes she says "the man told me to get up" which I assume is a dream, sometimes there is no reason at all and she is just there. There is no rhyme or reason to it. I got black out curtains for her room to avoid the light and her bedroom door is closed. I feel like I have to be alert because she will try to go downstairs and I worry about her getting out to getting up to mischief. I've found her asleep in the armchair before now.
There is no one else to be responsible or help as it is just the 2 of us.
Individual doctors aren't the most helpful, are they?

It's still a slow process, I'm in the middle of this one now, but it'll move faster if you have her assigned memory team handle it because everything has to be bounced off them anyway.
I'm in the U.S. I didn't know a prescription was necessary in the UK. So sorry to hear your doctor isn't helpful. My mom's were pretty much the worst, too. One of them literally told my sister, "Well, what do you expect me to do about it?" It took a year of procedures and appointments to finally even get the diagnosis. :(

I agree with the posts below about getting in touch with your doctors/memory team and letting them know the current situation. It's a big enough worry that she isn't sleeping. My mom is a fall risk, so keeping her asleep at night is a important. The melatonin is helpful with that worry. I'd emphasize concerns like that when talking to the team so that it's clear they can help you now, or deal with you mad later after things get worse. Good luck and sorry again about all the stress.
That's  tough.  With just two of you, I don't  know how you can handle night shift.  

Even my elder that was in a home was up a couple times a night for the bathroom (and on a bed alarm so that staff could assist with mobility needs, otherwise the elder would try and get up on their own not realizing their fall  risk due to gait changes).

With "the man"  you should keep track of what she's  saying.  Hopefully it is dream/wake confusion.  But if she has dementia with Lewy bodies on top of the vascular  issues, she may be hallucinating.  Lewy body dementia responds poorly to some of the medications used to treat symptoms of agitation in other forms of dementia, so that one is important to rule out with a doctor if the medications in question are considered.
We have been seen by the memory team about a year ago, they diagnosed her and then we never heard from them again
Thank you for the advice, I will contact the memory clinic
When I mentioned that I thought nan had anxiety to the doctor, she said that most medications to treat anxiety and depression will make dementia worse! So frustrating because what are we expected to do
They're probably stretched quite thin, but they will prioritise cases where either the patient is in danger or a carer is close to breakdown.

Get in touch with them and let them know of your current concerns.  They should bump you.
