She absolutely needs to see a doctor. I am going to be very blunt with you, a rigid body is a sign of the end of life. If she's being taken off of her meds, that is a sign as well. Please bring this up to the home she's in. Sending love.
Ill be blunt..  Rigidity of limbs and neck is typically a late-end of life stage for Alzheimer's patients. Ive seen it a few times in the week(s) prior to a patients death.

I am not sure why the doctor would take your grandmother off the medications though. In most cases hospice would recommend the continuation  of any treatment up until the point she can no longer swallow. Mostly as a precaution to continue to keep them calm, or remove any anxiety since they usually can not vocalize how they feel when they are near death.

I would consider asking the doctor if bringing in hospice to care for her at the home would be good idea.

(Source: i have been an inhome caretaker for a dozen or so Alzheimer's patients.)
You absolutely have to talk to the doctor.  Do they have hospice at the home?
You probably need to have her seen by a doctor.
What sort of medication does she take?  Certain antipsychotic for mood and behaviors can have side effects (EPS) which can be permanent and life threatening.  A periodic AIMS test is performed to look for such signs.  We use to administer Benadryl to reduce the signs of EPS, but found it increases the risk of Parkinsonian sx.  Now, especially with the elderly, we simply reduce or eliminate antipsychotic medications.
Get her to a Doctor and have them check for a UTI while you are there
This. Happened to my Mom about 6 weeks  before she passed. She looked so uncomfortable, so we used one of those airplane pillows to kind of prop her head up. Hug her lots, talk to her and hold her hand, caress her cheeks and keep her lips hydrated with some nice lip balm.
This. Happened to my Mom about 6 weeks  before she passed. She looked so uncomfortable, so we used one of those airplane pillows to kind of prop her head up. Hug her lots, talk to her and hold her hand, caress her cheeks and keep her lips hydrated with some nice lip balm.
