In the UK, they're called elderly mentally-impaired (EMI) units.
Hello! I am a caregiver in memory care unit. I love being on this sub to give out advice, but I hope you wouldn’t mind my opinion from my experience? I have a resident in the late stages of Lewy bodied dementia. With these residents there is so much 1 one 1 time that needs to happen to see possible interventions that can help with the confusion. The resident is my favorite resident ( I know your not supposed to have favs but I honestly can’t help it because their so nice) and a lot of the time the other caregivers with get frustrated with them. But I’m their intervention. I sit with them, alone I make sure they know I’m on their side, I ask them to just breath with me. Even if it still does not work I will sit with them until they know that their okay. It breaks my heart to hear what you are going through. Please ask me questions I am open to answering:)
My mother in law has Behavior Variant Frontotemporal dementia and is violent as violent cant get. She has physically assaulted multiple people (gouge an eye of a meter maid, stab my sister in law in the arm, pushed me down the stairs breaking my ankle from the fall, sexually assaulted my 14 year old son, causing level 2 head trauma to her female care worker, sexually assault a male home caregiver, gave black eye and deep nail marks to social worker, etc).

She's been removed twice and is currently blacklisted by every memory care my husband applied to (because they request records from her previous memory care facility) in our state and state where our sister in law live. I called Adult Protective Services and they help start the process with the court to transfer my husband guardianship into being a state ward. As a state ward, she have priority getting a bed at the state mental hospital secured wing due to her violent history.

I suggest talk to social worker, Adult Protective Services, and start documenting your father instance of violence for APS and the courts to determine what kind of services available that suits your father needs. Good luck :)
Hi, the original poster's situation sounds like the one my family is coping with for our mother-in-law. Should we be looking for a memory care unit? Is that a part of the hospital? She was just asked to leave her first group home after a violent outburst and we don't know what to do next. Thank you.
