That’s tough to deal with. I’ve been dealing with my mom’s dementia for a couple of years now, and it’s not easy. What’s next for you could be finding a lawyer to draw up an immediate power of attorney and a will, and then enacting that power of attorney immediately to deal with her financial situation if her condition gets worse. 

Also, a personal directive should be a definite consideration for when you need to make personal health care decisions for her, but that may be further down the line.

Without more background, it’s hard to suggest anything else. She may have to retire early; you may have to take her driver’s license away (with the doctor’s help).  

These were all things I had to do, and it was mostly easy as my mom seemed agreeable more or less. I think what’s most important is that she feels or knows she can trust you, even if she goes down a path where she accuses you of things you didn’t do but she believes you may have done because she’s scared. 

I’m a single child too, and it sucks when your parent starts declining.

Edit: an enduring power of attorney, i mean.
You can call the doctor and tell them her issues and ask them to do an evaluation for dementia. Maybe tell her it's for a routine visit or something if she would be difficult about it. 

My mom had to leave work due to "stress" at about the same age. Shortly after she was tested and diagnosed with early onset dementia
You have my great sympathy having to deal with this at such a young age, both yourself and your mother.

Personally I would call the doctor she just visited and relay this new information about how long they have been covering for her erratic thinking at work. Since she has had an arrhythmia/pace maker and high blood pressure, there's a chance that her recent health issues have caused an acute situation, like small brain bleeds that are disrupting her cognitive abilities. He/she may immediately have her come in for additional testing or refer her to another specialist for further help.

Typically dementia is tested  by a neurologist or gerontologist with a thorough exam. Someone should attend the exam with her to make sure correct information is given to the doctor and to help support your mom with any anxiety she might have. There are several different types of dementia and certain drugs may help in the beginning stages so it  would be worthwhile to try to get a diagnosis. Dementia can be a slow moving disease and having a good relationship with a specialist will help her and you or whomever will be making decisions for her longterm. Having an official diagnosis letter can also be of great help to you with paperwork.

I echo meeting with an elder attorney to draft power of attorney and health directive documents. Having these discussions now, even when they are hard, will ensure that her desires are heard and honored so you will feel confident to speak for her down the road. My parents attorney helped them and me plan out financial items which helped in the later stages.

Peace to you - you are not alone!
What a good boss she has! If her job has good benefits, she might be able to go on a short medical leave while she goes to doctors to find out her problems and then to long term disability, if she has some sort of cognitive decline, so she doesn't have to retire early.
Also - consider 2nd opinion with a neurologist.
It could be something associated with her pacemaker.  I know they can cause confusion so maybe they can also cause forgetfulness. There are a lot of nonspecific things caused by something called Pacemaker Syndrome so I would call whoever put in the pacemaker and ask them to see your mother.
At 62 she may able to start collecting social security, and so even though that may not be enough to live on, it will be something.  If her social security payment is low enough, she may qualify for Medicaid or a low cost Obamacare plan so that she doesn't have to be without health insurance until 65 and Medicare.

Though it seems that her employer has good intentions, I would hesitate to release all her medical information to them.  Your mother has a right to privacy and HR does not always have the employee's best interest at heart.

I agree with everyone here that you should take your mom for a consult and hopefully a mental status exam.  My mother had one done herself when she worried that her medication was affecting her cognition.  You can google the questions asked, it's kind of interesting.
Ask her doctor to run a B12 panel. 

How is she eating? She still eating meals or does she avoid regular meals because it isn’t worth the time/effort?
No advice, there's lots of great stuff above. Just another only child of my now single dad who needs more and more care, and I hear you.

Editing to add: could this new development be hormone-related? Declining hormones make some of  us beyond stoooopid, sadly.
Excellent advice from the other posters. Get her to a neurologist and work out a plan. UTIs can also make you confused. But...a neighbors wife had a similar problem with early onset dementia and had to retire from her elementary school teaching position. There are a lot of tricks you have to play to not ruin the family’s finances, so get some help from your local Council on Aging and probably check with a lawyer $250 for some advice, it’s worth it.
Please listen to "ValuableTravel" . You need to decide if you should take over (or monitor)  her finances - please do this before she loses a bunch of money to some scammer. Get referred to a hospital social worker who can point you to resources (adult day care, food stamps, SSI disability) if needed.
