I had a similar situation with my father and one bit of advice that I got was not to argue with his idea of reality. Of course, don’t let him do anything dangerous, but try to agree and stay calm yourself. The staff at their facility can help you a lot as well. I was able to visit my dad every day when we did hospice care so was able to help my mother out and be a somewhat “sane” person for her to talk to. It’s a heartbreaking situation no matter how you look at it. The fact that you’re willing to be there and want to help says a lot about your upbringing. I wish I had more wisdom, but we all pretty much have to figure out what works because the dementia is just so hard to understand sometimes. The man who taught his daughters how to take care of their cars and from whom I got my sense of humor was gone most of the time, but he’d peek out occasionally and that was wonderful. You are not alone. Just do the best you can and TRY not to let it consume you. They wouldn’t want that.
What a lovely grandson you are. Talk with the staff at the home about how to help grandpa the best. The first thought I had was that maybe grandma needs a break. Maybe take her out to *lunch just the two of you sometimes.
As you visit your grandparents, you will get to know the staff, particularly the carers who see to your grandparents’ daily needs, and the staff will get to know you along with your grandparents. It will enhance your grandparents’ care if you build relationships with the people who take care of them.

Another thing is that if the facility has a person who is in charge of helping with issues such as dementia, (this might be the director of nursing, or an occupational therapist, or a social worker, etc.) maybe they can talk with you about what kind of things they are doing to help the problems each of your grandparents are facing, and give you advice about what kinds of things you can do for them.

You can also do some research on your own about dealing with people with dementia (including caring for the carers; i.e., your grandma) – there is plenty of advice available, for example on the internet – for things you can do, and for what to watch out for in the care they receive, that you are keeping an eye out that it’s appropriate.
This is pretty obvious, but each time you visit you will learn about their needs.

Grandfather - He will need to be familiar with his surroundings to be comfortable. Any familiar furniture you can bring may help. 

Grandmother- Your post makes it sound like she is pretty healthy, so her problem is going to be emotional. Call her regularly and let her vent. 

 

Entertainment - If they're not good with tech, magazine subscriptions are great. Crosswords, sudoku, or even popular mechanics. 

Random - Night lights, many accidents I've seen are caused by not being able to see.
I always suggest getting a candy dish & keep it filled with peppermints for the staff. Everyone will stop in to get a mint and visit with your grandparents. This provides increased socialization and safety checks.
Thank you for the advice. It is a fine line between agreeing with him and letting him try to do something unsafe sometimes. He was a stubborn old Italian all his life and that hasn't changed one bit at 91. I suppose that was what it took to live through the Depression and WWII.
Thank you! My family and I are trying to get my grandmother to be a little more independent, but she worries about leaving my grandfather being alone.  For instance, tonight when i visited, she was afraid to go to the dining hall and leave him in the apartment since he had fallen last night trying to use the bathroom (he still firmly believes he can do everything himself but oh well). She's willing sometimes, but it's an ongoing struggle.
Thank you for the advice! We're making an effort to get to know the staff at the facility, and they all seem wonderfully kind and knowledgeable. I'm hopeful this will eventually be a god place for them; its just right now is tough, especially with my grandfather. But I love them, and I want to give them back some of the same caring they gave to me as a child.
Thank you! The night lights are something I've never considered, but they might be helpful if my grandfather tries to get up at night. My family and i are trying to visit and make them feel less lonely (especially my grandmother).
That’s actually a really good idea. Plus my grandfather likes candy so maybe this will remind him he needs to eat something.
Agree, delay, distract. My stepfather's kids kept borrowing his car until he got to a doctor who diagnosed him with dementia and told him he couldn't drive any more.
Staff can help figure things out like that. They will want her to be as independent and involved as she can be.
I would definitely focus on your grandma. She deserves some time to herself and being in assisted living should help her with that. If there are times when he is definitely “down” like taking a nap or sitting safely at the dining table eating, or if he is at some supervised event like entertainment or activity club, maybe ease her into increasing time away to build confidence. Like just ten minutes to get some coffee or walk around the faculty. Hopefully she will gain confidence and some protocol so she gets used to her going out on her own for an hour or more. I’ve been telling my mom when she takes a nap to stay in bed until I get back in an hour (to run some errands). If she objects I explain to her that she needs to promise me to do it or I can’t go out!  She usually falls asleep for a couple of hours and everything is fine. Also eventually get him to pee before taking that nap so he does not have a reason to get up.
I just ordered some motion detector LED lights on Amazon and I’ll see how they work. You can attach them under the bed frame and under the cabinets so they don’t glare too much. They turn on if it is dark and they detect motion.
