Short of medication, it doesn't go away. You're dealing with someone who's in a perpetual state of disorientation, where anger and fear are natural responses, unfortunately. About the only thing that you can do, that even has the slightest placating effect, is to white-lie like you've never white-lied before. Since she's been diagnosed with only months left to live, you might opt to go with medication since the whole idea of hospice is to have the patient as comfortable as possible in the remaining days. My mom also has vascular dementia, but may have years left, so only that medication which is crucial is the immediate practice.
The mean part of the dementia is always the worst. I think that they say things just because they're hurting and can't tell you why. Just remember that. Most of the time that they say something they are trying to express something else or are mad at themselves.

My best suggestion for when this hurts, is take a break if you can. Do something for yourself
My grandmother is on an antipsychotic for this. Luckily it’s working. Talk to her doctor. It’s awful. Good luck.
She’s on hospice (two to four months to live) and is refusing all meds. There is a prescription for an antipsychotic (I think even a topical one) but she refuses. :(
The neurologist refused to give my grandmother anything. I'm going to try her PCP next. In December she was supposed to see a psychiatrist, but she was hospitalized the day before for bronchitis. The paranoia and distrust is strong and can make it very difficult when she doesn't believe I am the granddaughter that lives with her and cares for her.
I’m so sorry.
On what grounds did the neurologist refuse? The meds (I forget the name) have worked wonders. She was out of control: paranoid, mean, even physically abusive, attacking my mother (her daughter.) It’s made a huge difference. Good luck!
Thank you. I’m glad your gramma is getting good help tho. And thank you for checking in. I appreciate it.
I don't know, I was trying distract my grandmother while my cousin asked and I didn't hear what he said. We had already spoken enough at the appointment that after was getting frustrated with us. I've since been told that the same doctor turned away another dementia/psych patient saying that he wasn't the right doctor for her. This doctor has in his 80s and came back from retirement, this may have something to do with it. I think the other lady told me that he didn't have the right medical training or something.
At the risk of sounding ageist- he needs to just retire. Yeah, get a second opinion.
And he's better than the first neurologist who never suggested for the neuro-psych eval. For a year and half, 1st neurologist just said everything was getting old, even though someone stuck diagnosis of dementia without any formal testing. Admittedly she was on Aricept from before we moved to this town, but she did not have a diagnosis.
Wow!
