With my Dad, I thought they were crazy.  With my Mom, I thought of course, right.
With my grandmother, I was relieved to know what was going on. She'd been seeing the ghosts of her dead children, seeing fairies in her living room, insisting her television was coming on without sound (that was actually happening, we didn't realize it until we'd inherited her tv a few years later and it did it to us) just lots of weird things that suddenly made sense.  


With my grandfather on the other side of the family, it felt kind of like justice. He'd been an abusive drunk to my grandmother and hadn't been much of a provider for his kids. I didn't realize at the time that it was just going to be a long, slow and painful for my aunts goodbye.  


With my mom, it just felt like "here we go again", 20 years later and there's been very little advance in treatment. Watching her say and do the same things her mom did, seeing people in the yard that weren't there, accusations of stealing things, constantly angry at someone about something. That sick feeling in the pit of my stomach, knowing how this was going to end.
With my dad my first thoughts were worrying about my mom. Since me and my sisters work during the day she would have to take care of him most of the time. I kept thinking about how her life would be when it got to the final stages.
I love both my parents, but I felt my mom deserved a break (my dad wasn't the best husband).
I was diagnosed with progressive vascular dementia in 2018 at the age of 57. Even though I had been a pre-med student, I had no idea what dementia really was! I thought it meant, "elderly people forgetting stuff more often". Now, I've done extensive research and have learned there are 100 types of dementia and, since every person is different, every brain unique, the "standards" aren't really standard at all. I have slowed progression with proper medication, diet and exercise. What surprised me most was that the news freaks out about Coronavirus because almost 2,000 people have died from it. 5.8 MILLION people in the US, 50 MILLION people in the world have Alzheimer's or some form of dementia. In 30 years, it will be a larger global epidemic than any previous epidemic COMBINED. An estimated 152 MILLION people in the world will have dementia. That's almost half the population of the United States. How did I feel about my diagnosis? Ignorant. I feel better after research.
I remember thinking the geriatric doctor had misdiagnosed her and that really my mother was just depressed over my dad's death.

I wish so hard I had been right...
I had many racing thoughts of what will I do, how will she be, how can I handle this, and many more. I was completely overwhelmed and still get overwhelmed 2 years in. Nothing feels "normal" to me anymore. 

How is your mom doing now, and how are you doing? Do you feel things got easier over time?
When my Mom was diagnosed the social worker told me I would need a lot of help because the stress is so bad that 40% of caregivers die before the Dementia sufferer. I didn't believe her and thought it wouldn't be bad. Man was I wrong. I also thought at her age that she was more likely to pass away from something else before it got bad. I was wrong.  We are still here though.
Relieved because the diagnosis explained so much of my dad’s behavior, and then deeply concerned that as his dementia didn’t seem “typical” (mixed symptoms of Alzheimer’s / FTL / vascular) there was basically no way to know what might come next.
I hear you. I’m a nurse but I remember thinking that we were going to beat this, that it wasn’t the right diagnosis. I was just so scared and in denial.
I completely understand the racing thoughts. After 4 years and a lot of talking to a therapist I’ve had to reframe what normal is to me. Sad as it is, so yes things get easier for a bit as you adjust, but as the dementia advances it gets harder and I’m to the point now where I know this is going to be very difficult from now until the end. Not to discourage you. Enjoy the good moments because they will become fewer and fewer and get lots of supports such as homecare and respite. 


Mom is doing just fair thank you so much for asking. She has frontotemporal dementia which means she can remember things fine, but her personality has changed, her behaviours are very bizarre, impulsive, no social cues, and she can barely stand up and walk, and has no regard for her personal safety or the safety of those around her. It’s like someone reached inside her soul and took whatever it was that made her her out. 


We just took her home from the hospital. She was in for three weeks with pain control issues because she climbed onto a chair in the middle of the night and fell and broke 8 ribs, so safety is an issue. It’s just so hard grieving for someone who is still here.
I am so sorry you are going through this, from my understanding frontotemporal dementia is one of the more difficult to manage due to the drastic change in behavior, but they all suck. I kind of figured that what you described (a short "adjustment" period followed by even worse hell) is what will happen. 

I'm sorry you are at this difficult stage. Is your family considering placement at all? There was a time I never would have considered that option. But dementia changed everything. Even though we are not ready for that yet I know there will come a day when it will be necessary. 

Yes it is very hard to grieve when the person is still here. Watching their world shrink and change is so sad and unsettling. Sending you an internet hug, and if you ever need to vent or talk feel free to PM me.
So sorry that your family is going through this. Grieving for someone still here totally describes it.
