I tend to separate myself from it.  I know my wife isn't mad at ME, she's mad and pissed off at the world on what's going on with her.  You yourself know there's light at the end of the tunnel, it does get better.  Till then, however, the pressure is going to build, and if you don't have an outlet, you'll explode.

My biggest thing is looking forward to the things that I'll get to do once things are settled down.  Read a book, cheating at a video game so I can get through the damn story, play a race car game and drive backwards on purpose and let the carnage blow off some steam.

You can't be "on" all the time.  Don't even try to be.
How far gone is her dementia? Either way, in general frustration on any of my patients end is usually due to 3 things: pain, lack of sleep, or not understanding something. With dementia you can get a collection of all 3, especially with an infection. The chances of having a whiny client are high, but it's your job to take it all in and stay calm. 

I have worked with dementia clients are are fairly pleasant in general. But there have been a few who are paranoid ones and do get violent or frustrated easy. Usually if I am dealing with such a case I try to gauge what really needs to get done, like a meal or bath and try to make it my one priority. Usually by distracting them from whatever is frustrating them by asking them questions to jog a memory or two. It can also help to calm someone down by knowing their hobbies and having them do it for awhile while you tend to anything else that might need done in the mean time. 

In the end, the real key to patience is just having done caregiving for a long time and finding a way to hold it all in and release the frustration later. (In my case a few rounds with my boxing bag and a work out). Find a healthy outlet to be able to let it out later. It will make it easier to hold it in and not aim it at your Mom so fast. Especially since there is nothing she doing on purpose really
I’m in a similar situation. It helps to remind myself whenever I start getting snappy that a lot of the time, they don’t know any better. They’re doing all they can to cope in their own way. And a lot of the time, they just get overwhelmed with all their problems rushing in. The last thing she wants is to hurt you by her crying but she probably can’t help it. Crying is also an outlet for her to let out her own stress, anger and frustration. It’s scary how much like children they become in so many ways, and how the roles have reversed. But now it’s our turn to take care of them. As the other comments have said, find your own way to de-stress. Have some personal time away from everything each day. Even if it’s just a half hour alone on the can on your phone browsing Reddit. It really helps.
Well, I found a solution last night. I am not sure it is the best answer, but it is the best that I have found so far. Since others confront the same issue, I am sharing in case it is something useful to you.

Mom's crying reminded me of when my kids had temper tantrums: born of legitimate frustration, perfectly understandable, and sets me on edge. When the kids were little and tantrumed, I didn't judge or shame them, but didn't give them attention or energy and removed myself from them as much as possible until they played out. So I thought I would try the same, see if it would help.

When Mom called me to help her to the bathroom with a voice full of whines and tears, I quickly came and in a kind and even voice I told her she was having a hard time, so rather than struggle with the bathroom I  would help her into bed and change her. She wasn't too keen on the idea, but since I change her once or twice a night when she needs it she was familiar with it, and knew it required minimal effort on her part. She let me help her onto the bed, urinated into her Depends, then I changed her quickly and with no fuss. I then told her to rest while I got her dinner.

When I came in with her dinner, rather than her sitting in her chair with her table in front of her, I kept her in bed and I hand fed her where she had no struggles and no reason to fall into frustration. After a few minutes she asked if she could get up and feed herself, and I told her she could if she thought she could do so without having so much trouble she cries. She agreed, and when she was seated with her food in front of her she calmly, slowly (and somewhat messily) fed herself. I sat near her and kept her company and helped her with anything she needed.

A little later she apologised for giving me "so much trouble", and I told her I loved her and I was happy to help her, always, with whatever she needs.

So, yeah, brought back the methods I used to raise my kids (who are now outstanding citizens, BTW). I don't like treating Mom like a kid, but it worked, was still full of love, so I guess it is the best that I have, so far. Putting it out there, in case somebody else can benefit.
