To this day I'm not exactly sure of my moms diagnosis. She definitely has dementia but it did not present like typical Alzheimers. She underwent a pretty dramatic personality change in her late 50s - poor judgement, lack of empathy, and disinterest in others. She seemed to lose the ability to guess what  others are thinking of feeling or what they probably do or do not know. She would often be really rude to store clerks or waitresses and make embarrassing scenes in public. This was followed by an inability to think abstractly, or make inferences. She started having  difficulty following a conversation or comprehending what was said to her unless I spoke very slowly and in short sentences. But oddly, her short term memory stayed surprisingly good for many years - until the last couple of years. 

I think she might have had a brain scan in her  early 70s that was consistent with moderate cognitive impairment, but I dont know the details. I cant help but conclude that when a patient is in denial, or has no insight into their situation, doctors dont force the issue because there is no cure anyway. In fact when I asked  the neurologist's nurse practitioner whether my mom had Alzheimers or another type of dementia, she said "Well, they all end up the same place anyway." It would have been helpful, though, if we had had a better understanding of what was going on in her brain and how quickly things were likely to progress. They put her on Aricept for a while and took her back off because it wasnt helping.  She went from independent living at a seniors place, to assisted living and is now in Memory care at age 83. 

The other major difficulty we found with assisted living (and this place was like 7 grand a month) is the aides were surprisingly  ill equipped to deal with dementia and the negative behaviors associated with it. Mom hated bathing and if she refused, the aide was like okay, whatever. My mom also wasnt changing her clothes and underwear regularly and developing other odd habits. I realize they cant man handle clients, but at times it seemed like they werent even trying. Perhaps it was simply to time consuming to argue with her when they had other clients who would accept help.  My point is people with  Alzheimers and unpleasant behaviors seem to get poorer quality of care and less attention than clients who just have mobility issues or respiratory problems, simply because they are so frustrating to deal with. 

Hopefully the staff where she is now is better trained and more experienced. But from her very first signs of mental changes 20 years ago until now, her dementia  wasn't handled with the thoroughness and care that, say, a heart condition or emphysema would be. But that's my own opinion and your mileage may vary.
1. From a specialist after many failed visits. Mid to late

2. Allways better.  More time to work out logistics for care, legal paperwork, fund raising, education etc.
   My dad has early onset senile dementia and thanks to my mom and siblings we found out early. I live out of state and honestly thought they were overreacting but i was wrong. They got his doctor to refer him to a neurologist (I think?) who performed some memory tests that confirmed his short term memory wasn't performing within the range of whatever normal is. The specialist was able to rule out physical causes of his memory impairment and determine what kind of dementia it was. Everyone thinks Alzheimer's but that's not the only kind and they progress differently. Knowing early, we were able to be prepared for what was ahead. More importantly, HE has been able to emotionally prepare himself and has handled his decline with heartbreakingly admirable acceptance and fortitude. He was also able to participate in a drug trial that we believe helped slow the onset although the drug was ultimately discontinued...his decline has been slower than predicted for whatever reason and we are so very grateful for every good day and all the time he has left. I thought it didn't matter when or if we found out because there is no cure but now my opinion has completely changed. If you suspect a loved one has dementia, get them tested asap.
I think it's more to do with the average person not understanding the trajectory of the disease. With us my mother in law was very eldery and we thought firstly that she would die of natural causes before she would become 24 hour care and secondly that the health system would kick in where needed, it didn't and we were left holding the potato for weeks without any assistance other than shower ladies twice a week that never 'persuaded' her to so much as get her little toe wet. She's been in care since November last year. A diagnosis to becoming 24 hour care in someone so old can be very fast and took us completely off guard.
We found out with my mother extremely early on. My mom is my best friend and I noticed 5ish years ago, she kept repeating conversations with me. She was officially diagnosed 2ish years ago. In a way it gave me time to adjust and make the necessary changes to help care for her but it is also really hard for my mom. She is still able to understand that she has the disease and it scares her a lot. She just lost her ability to drive and she understands why but forgets that it happened. So is it better to find out early? Maybe. I wish I didn't have to see my mom lose herself for years and years though.
I dont have data to back this up, but anecdotally it seems that when people do go to their doctor with concerns about problems with memory or cognitive function, its brushed off as normal changes associated with aging, nothing to worry about,  until they finally reach the point that they cant draw a clock face or name three animals that begin with the letter "S" on the Mini Mental Exam. While some patients dont have insight and awareness of their decline, I suspect many notice before people around them that something is very wrong. I wonder if earlier intervention would help.
We found out because my father had started acting very strangely.  He wasn’t someone who goes to doctors and hadn’t been in 30+ years...I had suspected strokes but was unsure since he wouldn’t go.  Final straw was when he went to visit my mom in the hospital and went to the wrong one.  I found him dazed and confused in the parking lot. Commence diagnosis.

If we could have found out earlier maybe we could have stopped the strokes or slowed the progression.
Definitely, that makes sense and sounds hard - thank you for sharing ❤️
My dad wash showing sign of mild cognitive impairment in 2016, diagnosed 'alzheimer type' dementia in 2018.

2016: my dad hides it so well, no one knows any better.

2017: he develops sarcoidosis, a fibrosis of the lungs, and (sadly) uses this as a means of justifying why he 'can't speak'. When he does speak, he often repeats the last word spoken to him. I knew there and then something was wrong but no one wanted to admit , especially not him, that he might have the "A" word.

2018: words are jumbled up together. Official diagnosis

So, to answer your question directly:

1. IMHO, we found out 'later' than we could have, but quite frankly it might have been a case of 'not wanting to know' - 'refusing to face reality on both ends since there's no cure and my dad saw it as a 'death sentence'.
2. Two things: 
   1.  access to medication early on in order to \*possibly\* 'slow down' the progression of the disease . Memantine is sometimes prescribed as 'preventive' in some countries.
   2. possibly, better communication with my dad to organize paper work etc, but i doubt we could have done it even if given the time. Its not something i would have been confortable doing while he was still 'himself'.

Other than that, not much really. That's why I'm a bit dubious about early detection in general which is currently a great starter money maker but not much else IMHO .

I'd love to be proven wrong and hear about many other advantages of early detection,  mind you.
I work in a memory care facility and 90% of the staff cares about every single resident. Our company does have a policy that the residents have the right to refuse care. When it comes to showers, we are told to try 3 times and then involve the nurse to try again. Some days it doesn't matter how many different approaches are used, the resident will not shower. If that continues over time, they schedule a meeting with the family to discuss changing their care plan. 


Faciities that aren't Alzheimer's focused do have a harder time dealing with dementia residents. To me, it seems that is due to no specialized training and a larger facility means a larger staff to resident ratio. In turn, that results in less time for the aide to provide care.
> Hopefully the staff where she is now is better trained and more experienced. 

Unfortunately not, in my experience. They’re not paid well, and they resent the work.
My dad is early 60s and your post describes the early signs. Realizing he has a health problem leading to his attitudes lately makes it easier to deal with rationally.
Thanks :)
Thanks that’s helpful! In what ways do you think earlier intervention would help, or earlier detection even?
I totally agree, and we are hoping she will have better care now in memory care.  Theres this difficult phase when dementia patients are still oriented to time and place, recognize people, arent flight risks, can perform most basic tasks, but are still difficult to interact with.  They can be oppositional or mean and have certain compulsive irrational habits. I really felt the aides would much  rather  assist clients who are receptive to help, and probably devote more time to them. In a way, that's understandable. 

Kindergarten teachers cant physically force a child to do something either, but they are trained to manage difficult behaviors to make a positive outcome a lot more likely. They dont simply let a small child do whatever he wants until something bad happens.
I think more aggressive medical intervention would have helped my parents plan better, perhaps down sizing to a more manageable living arrangement. Perhaps she could have made some life style changes like better diet, stopping alcohol, light exercise like walking, less social isolation, and challenging herself mentally a bit more. She just didnt see the need to do any of those things or have the desire. Maybe medication would have been more effective early on - or maybe not. It's hard to know. But my parents attitude toward life in general was kind of screwed up. They insisted they knew everything, complained and criticized things and people constantly. When you reach a stage in  life where you need help and lose the ability to clearly see just how bad things really are, that kind of arrogance and stubbornness is extremely detrimental.
