Uncontrolled high blood pressure, already had mini strokes which caused damage? What kind of bad friend he has? 20 years? I doubt it.

I'm sorry, he definitely needs to see a neurologist and probably a psychiatrist by this point. And you need to seek legal counsel since you probably going ta need power of attorney over him sooner rather than latter.

Again, I'm sorry you and him having to go through this.
First of all what you are feeling is normal and it's ok. Breathe. I might suggest to see if u can get his primary care doc to send him to a nurology doc with a specialty in aging and dementia. Then u may need to discuss with the doc and your dad and the family about how to keep his safe in the short and long term, specifically health wise and financially. Laws vary from state to state so if u have someone helping you with your retirement who is a financial specialist, you can ask them about what they would suggest as they would be versed in many of the implications and resources available including different levels of guardianship and powers of attorney, particularly in health care decision making. Finally, your state department on aging and disability will also have resources specific to your state and be also able to advise on some of those care issues including what is available when and what the laws regarding abuse and neglect are and how they apply to your situation, if they apply at all. Some forms of dementia can look like a stroke also, so the  neurology specialist on dementia if u have one can help and give a better long term prognosis and what that will look like.   Breathe. It will be what it is and so feel your feelings, then breathe again. These things can have so many causes that some people waste away quickly and others linger for years, some people become mean, others angry, others docile and compliant, and others have an easier time. I don't know that a psychiatrist will help unless the neurologist is thinking mood stabilizers or anxiety meds, but that's a good talk with the primary care and the neurologist. Sometimes just being on like aricept or that other one is enough to make things even out. So breathe. If you don't do self care religiously, you need to start, gather your support team and hang in there. If you need to talk, please dm   you totally got this. You might not think you do, but, you can do this.
