Sometimes the best resolution is the end. Its not horrible to think that, many many people don't want their loved ones to suffer. You're not alone in thinking that. 

I don't have any experience with Parkinson's, so I can't answer your question, but I don't think it would be out of line to ask his medical team how long he may last in this state, so long as its not in front of him. 

Wishing you the best that can be.
I took care of my father with Parkinson’s for many years. The last year of his life I had to place him in a memory care center as his psychosis and dementia were beyond my ability to safely take care of him. I believe everyone’s experience is unique to them, but my dad lasted about a year or more in the last stages of this horrible disease. He passed six months ago. Hang in there—- I know that’s a tough question to ask but I get it. I didn’t want my dad to die but I hated seeing him suffer. It was awful. I visited him every day and it hurt my heart so much.
Sorry I don't know the answer, but I just wanted to tell you I'm in the same boat. My mother has not suffered from PD nearly as long (she was probably diagnosed about 4 years ago, but symptoms were showing many years before that), but her decline has been so rapid. It's absolutely heart wrenching to watch and have no control over it, especially when you care for the person who is suffering and you knew how they were... before. It really sucks, and I wish you the best.
Thank you! Yes I think your idea of asking the medical people is good, I shall defo take that on board....and agree on it not being in front of him. 
Thank you for your kind wishes and all the best you
I’m so sorry you have lost your dad so recently. Thank you so much for your message. 
I lost my mum this past year also, so I’m not afraid of the inevitable anymore.
What you have said was really helpful. It’s hard to find answers through google at times. Hearing other people’s experiences is far more honest and relatable.
I’m sure your father loved you visiting everyday. I do wish you and your family all the very best.
Thank you! 
Oh I am so sorry you are in the same boat. I really am, because I know how it feels. Yet at the same time it is a kind of comfort to hear from someone who understands. 
It must have been and still be so awful to see a decline so quickly. I don’t know if everything happening slowly or quickly is better than the other. I guess it doesn’t matter, it’s still seeing your parent suffer. 

And YES to the knowing how they were before! Before the constant looking out for potential trip hazards or confusion. If you weren’t an anxiety ridden micro-manager before, this situation certainly helps you get there!!

I truly wish you all the best as well. To both you and your mother. I’m sure she loves and appreciates all that you do for her. Even if it feels like she doesn’t! You give her the strength she cannot find when she’s tired.
Thank you for your kind words. I love my dad so much and we had the best relationship. Some days grief just washes over me, and other days I am fine. Grief is a funny thing. Caregiving is a difficult job and it consumes your entire life, at least it did mine. I wanted to have no regrets at his passing. I did the best that I could. I’m sorry about your mum. I hope you are at peace with things.
I really needed to hear this today, thank you so much. Sometimes I get overwhelmed by grief, and I've been having one of those times lately. Grief for times past, moments gone, things to come... But I know in the end my mom appreciated what I've done for her. Thank you again, it's amazing to hear from someone who really understands. Best to you and yours :)
