This is A LOT for ANYONE to deal with & with a longstanding diagnosis of MDD, you are wise to be paying attention to your mood & thoughts & taking note of how YOU'RE doing in the  midst of worrying about Dad & closing this chapter of your family business. 100%, if you haven't already, reach out to your PCP, bring them up to speed on what's been going on in your life & with your insight & their expertise on your medication  history, together you can team up to monitor how you're coping & devise a plan to keep you supported & healthy, both physically & mentally. I keep repeating this, but I've found Dementia leads to grieving in almost slow motion, & I was unprepared for the way that I felt initially. If the support groups you've found have not been helpful, don't give up on the concept.  See what else is out there & maybe look into some one on one counseling (ask PCP for referrals at your next appointment)  so that you know that you're sharpening the tools at your disposal to help you cope with these major life changes. All that said, good for you for recognizing the potential this has to upset the balance you strive for, & for reaching out for support. You CAN stay healthy through this experience, you are NOT alone & we're here of you need us. Sending support & love to your whole family as you move forward.
I'm in a very similar situation. I had a good job, a stable family life, everything people want right? Then it hit - FTD/nfPPA with dad. It created immense grief in me, and triggered MDD, and a bunch of other acronyms i'll spare you. 

Drugs (legal and illegal), therapy, i tried everything. I had good results with brain zaps (transcranial stimulation). But it's hard. I relapse on drugs regularly. Tension with the wife and kids is immense. My mood if i even see my mum gets really low and in the past i had a suicide attempt (a lame one mind you, but one nonetheless where i was resuscitated in-extremis thanks to a watchful family member). 

I'm going to tell you what works for me and you roll with it if it resonates with you or not . This is actually what my first therapist told me when he learned i was going to deal with this. 

Option 1: get involved. Do part time work in the care home where your Loved one is if you have to. Feel useful. Get a fucking purpose to fight the MDD is very important.

Option 2: quit and let other manage this. I know what you're thinking, the guilt right, the horror of thinking you abandoned your loved one. But before you completely shut the door on that option, keep this in mind ; when it all said and done, where will you be? In a medical environment? In rehab? Divorced? Dead? (the suicide rate for caregiver is skyrocketing). 

Choose wisely. Personally i went with 1 but it's a daily struggle. I feel for you, i really do. PM me if you struggle.
It’s grief, you’re losing the dad you know in one of the worst ways possible, and you’re losing the business you grew up around. Three days is nothing.
Thank you! It helps to feel validated. Plus just writing it out I was like “whoa, yeah, if someone else told me this was happening to them I’d think that was A LOT.” 

I think a challenge for me is managing my job. If Dad -died-, people would understand and I could get a few days of paid leave.  (I’m really fortunate to finally have a job where that’s possible — I know many people are not.) i work 40 - 50 hours a week, much of it in front of the public and most of it with a fair degree of focus. I’ve had jobs in the past where I could kind of “zone out” and work through the depression, but that’s not the case right now. I also have to sit an exam for a professional qualification in the next month that requires some serious study. In other words, I need my brain to fully engage right now. So yeah, as you say — it’s a slow motion situation that’s hard both to experience and to explain to my boss/coworkers.
 I'm sure a lot of suicides are caregivers and we never hear about them. I've had Ocpd/Gad for 30+ years & have been on everything over the years. The stress from caregiving is brutal & no medication even slows it down for me. It hits you in so many ways. I will be putting her into nursing soon. I can't believe im still here after doing this so long.

 I thought divorce was tough but it was nothing compared to years of caregiving. I hope I can have some kind of life after this.
Emotionally, I definitely understand. I think the challenge is that I work 50 hours a week, much of it in front of people so I need to not cry constantly. I can’t figure out what’s appropriate / reasonable in terms of missing work.
I hear you re: work. For a year & a half (the time frame where my Mom moved closer to my family, I immediately noticed something was "wrong", we tried to get her help, she had no insight but was still considered medically as the "person in charge of being able to make healthy decisions for herself", continued decline & my husband & I slowly absorbing the responsibility for almost every activity of her daily living until this December, when we hit Crisis Time), I was trying to "Do It All". Be the cheerfully dedicated employee who goes the extra mile, be the friend everyone can lean on, be the partner my husband deserves, be the daughter my Mom needed, be the Big Sister & try to help my sibling come to terms with what i KNEW was happening, etc etc. It SUCKED the life out of of me, because I wasn't being honest about how much the situation with my Mom was actually scaring me & how lost & powerless I felt to help her get the help she NEEDED (I needed her to agree to get further testing from a Geriatric Neurologist but she was scared AND, as is common, had no insight into how profoundly different her behaviours had become). Basically, everything culminated in me having to take my Mom into hospital for a large wound on her leg (which turned out to be cancerous) & for a sudden decline in cognitive ability. She was there for 2.5 months, & just recently, has moved into Full Nursing Care Assisted Living while waiting for a Long Term Bed to become available. I was at work when the crisis hit. What I can tell you is that you might be surprised what your colleagues have experienced in their own lives with this condition, & how much support might be there for the taking. I have a chronic health condition as well, that is exacerbated by stress, & I was kidding myself when I thought I "had it all together". I robbed myself of possible reserves because I continued to act like it was "Business As Usual", when the reality is that it was anything but! My work has been amazingly supportive - I ended up taking time off to deal with sorting through this quagmire. I KNOW this isn't possible for everyone & that I'm blessed that we COULD make this feasible, financially, & it has involved a lot of sacrifice by a plethora of people. I guess what I'd like to pass on is that, don't automatically assume that you're without options. Depending on where you live, people can apply for caregiver support, a leave of absence etc, to handle what literally is a Family Crisis. It doesn't make you weak  or less than to admit that "THIS" is too much to handle & continue as though nothing major is going on. I SO wish that I had a magic wand to wave over us all to "fix" this, but until I get my invite to Hogwarts, please know that I'm sending you all the positivity possible.
I mean that entirely depends on the country you’re in, relevant laws, your company’s HR department, and your manager. 

I think the AskAManager blog probably fairly represents US attitudes if you want to search there. 

Me, I’d take 1-2 personal days to refocus - assuming you’re going to need more. 

You mentioned a tough professional exam in a month? I’d reschedule that if it were me.
