My mom just forgot she smoked after we removed her cigarettes and lighters.  She had been in rehab for 17 days prior to that, so hadn’t smoked during that time.  Try  removing the cigs and lighters and giving her one after meals and go outside with her.  She will eventually start a fire if you keep the cigs and matches lying around.  I took the handles off the stove and put them in a drawer for a year.  It wasn’t the big of a pain to just get one out when I cooked, not harder than finding the salt or pepper.
We told my mom she quit months ago and never bought anymore. She was pretty irritable for a bit but it passed.
Similar situation and I just tried to switch my Mom over to a vape Sunday. She was very enthusiastic when I told her that she could smoke in the house with it. Otherwise is very negative about me “taking away her right to smoke”. My response is always that she is taking away my, as a severe asthmatic, right to breathe freely. 

Anyway, I purchased a very simple cartridge based vape pen so all she has to do is inhale. The problem is that the nicotine is 1% higher than what she is used to and it hyped her up Sunday night. Be careful about the nicotine percentages. Vapes tend to be 5% or higher, at least in the US. Also the cartridges themselves will probably cost more because it’s so convenient that she uses it in bed. The ease of vaping in bed may also mean that she gets up and moves even less than she does already.
My grandma smokes and will get up in the middle of the night sometimes to smoke. We try to put them away but sometimes my mom forgets. I am terrified of a fire. she will often light tissues on fire, or put her cigarette out in the carpet if we don't catch her. She has lite other things in fire too (reusable grocery bags, paper, leaves, etc). My mom isn't taking it seripusly enough to keep the lighters away from her.
Does she still go out shopping, or is she housebound? If she doesn't go shopping, I would take them away before she starts a fire.  And explain to her that with the corona virus going around, people stocked up on cigarettes and the shelves are bare and you can't get them any more. 

That way it's not you being a controlling asshole - you can sit and empathize with her about it. People are idiots, hoarding all the toilet paper and hand sanitizer and cigarettes, eh?

Your choice then if you want her vaping, or if you want to instead use nicotine gum that you can swap out with regular gum as needed to step her down off it.
My mother in law was addicted to Coca Cola, I just took all soft drinks away, after a few days she forgot she drank that.  We had a few episodes, but that is in the past now.

 Not sure if that can be done in your case. But I would try taking those away and if she asks just tell her she quit smoking a while back.
Lol
Man, I hadn’t even thought about a fire.  When she can’t find her lighter she lights them on the stove, if we don’t catch her.
That is scary.  Please make sure that you have working smoke detectors and an escape plan to keep yourself and your family as safe as possible.
