Hey BigMoosage,

I always feel like a bit of a bummer when I answer questions about tech for folks with dementia. My two cents, in short: if it's a technology that you expect your loved one to use, maybe skip the purchase (unless money is no object). Generally, folks with dementia lose recent memories first, and more broadly lose the ability to pick up new skills. This makes it likely that even if your loved one can figure out a new device, that use will be fleeting.

The rest of this is anecdotal, but will speak more specifically to your questions.

TV remote: I picked up a simplified remote for my mum. I showed her how to use it, and under supervision she could 100% get it to work for a while. However, it looked nothing like the old remote so if I wasn't beside her to point it out it was just a mystery object on the coffee table. She wouldn't have known its purpose even if I sat it on a piece of paper with glitter lettering and arrows that said, "REMOTE CONTROL FOR THE TELEVISION." Eventually, because she didn't recognize what it was, she started to "tidy" it away. Although I was pretty good with her hiding spots, it was so well lost after about a month of attempting to get her to use it that I didn't worry about finding it. Later, my bro-in-law made, basically, a mini computer that we affixed to the back of the screen so she wouldn't see it. It was set up to autoplay one of her favourite shows when the tv was turned on, would skip to the next random show when the tv was turned off then on again, and we figured that because it was always going to be the beginning of a show she wanted to see she wouldn't need the remote to channel surf. Well, at that point she couldn't figure out how to turn on the tv at all, so it didn't really preserve any independence for her. 

GPS: my mum wasn't a big wanderer, but before we ended up moving in with her I desperately wanted some way to check in on her location. When I couldn't reach her, I worried. I started by enabling a GPS tracker on her phone because she was rarely without it, but as she moved from mild to moderate, she forgot how to charge her phone. (She couldn't figure out why it kept dying and would call me in despair from a neighbour's telling me that her phone was broken *again*. Then she started stashing her charging cable(s) so nobody would steal them, but of course could never find them again.) So the phone was a non starter. I picked her up a watch, figuring if she wore it it would be more likely that she'd have her device with her at all times. Well, she hadn't worn a watch in years and the feeling of something on her wrist was so foreign that she'd remove it almost immediately. We were out at a restaurant once, and she removed it, put it on the table, and walked away from the table without it. When I showed her the watch and said "don't forget your watch!", she looked at me like I was nutty and proclaimed that she didn't own a watch. We also ran into charging problems with the watch. Learning that it needed to be plugged in was an insurmountable challenge. 

Pills: Once again, change proved my downfall here. I picked up a plastic pill sorter at the pharmacy and started there, divvying up her pills for a whole month into the contraption. She was keen at first. I re-labelled the thing because "Mon morn" didn't mean anything to her. It had to have the full words. I came back a week later to see how it was going, and she was just moving pills around the box. I couldn't tell what she had taken and what she had moved. A week after that, she showed me that the box was "broken" because she couldn't figure out how to open the compartments. About two weeks after that she was furious because the doctor was withholding her pills; it turns out she was accustomed to them in a bottle, and she couldn't find her pill bottles anywhere. ("The doctor must have broken in and stolen them!") So we graduated to pill packs put together by the pharmacy, the kind where each pill is behind a piece of foil that you have to push through. I liked it, because at least I could see very clearly what she had gotten into, and I hoped that the official pharmacy labelling would make it more official. It was a non-starter for mum, though. She never recognized the pill pack as her medicine; she would march to the pharmacy and scream at them for not filling her prescriptions.

So... all this to say: tech can be really tricky for someone with dementia. If you decide to explore options, awesome, and I truly hope you have wonderful success. In my lived experience, however, you'd be better off investing that money in people-based services like a nurse who stops by in the morning to administer pills, or a companion visitor who can operate the TV. As your loved one progresses, there just isn't a technology that will help. Only people can help, later on, and your loved one might have an easier time at that later stage if they get to know new faces before they lose that ability too. 

Big internet hugs.
I can’t remember what they’re called, but I read not long ago about shoe soles that have location monitoring. It’s a yearly/monthly subscription, but as wandering becomes a problem it may be a life saver.
I guess I'm lucky that my grandmother was already used to using pill boxes. After her first seizure, perhaps caused by high blood pressure from not regularly taking her pills, I started monitoring her taking them. Nearly 2 years later, and I'm the one in charge of her pills and making sure she takes them in the morning and I'm the evening.

For the TV remote, I have 3 in the living room and 2 in her bedroom. All the TV's are Samsungs, so the remotes turned out to be interchangeable. Granny used to be the one who always decided what was on TV and changed the channel and volume. It's rare now that she will use a remote or even pay attention to the TV.

So far, my grandmother is still very attached to her cell phone, but it's an old flip phone and I have no idea for to track it. She's had the phone and it's exact same model predecessor for 6 years or more. She is losing how to do even basic tasks on it like calling someone from the contacts or answering the phone when it's already flipped open. I couldn't imagine trying to get her to wear a smart watch it something else to be able to track her with. Unfortunately she never wears shoes with shoelaces.

From Amazon, I bought her a clock that shows that it is Friday evening or Monday morning or Wednesday afternoon. It also has the date, but it's too small for her to be able to read. I'm debating if it'll benefit to buy another larger one for the living room. I'd then move this smaller one to her bedroom if I could figure out where to place it. Last night after went to bed before 6pm and came back to the living room around 9pm saying good morning. I quickly told her, no, it's 9 at night and time to go back to bed. Today had been a drag for us both because our sleep schedules got messed up. I was not expecting to be awake by 5:30 this morning after going to bed after midnight. She was able to nod off this morning but I have not been back asleep.

Edit: spelling
100% Agree with this!  As a tech lover myself I thought of lots of solutions to help my mom. 
But as clsilver says, the big gotcha is that introducing anything new at all that she has to interact with is almost impossible and very confusing. She even tries to answer the phone by picking up tv remote and holding it to her ear. Those are 2 things she has used for many many years.
You may have success with things that help you and others remotely care for her but don’t rely on anything that is a “change for her”. 
There are solutions where you can remotely control the tv and cable box but I haven’t tried them. 
You can use smart locks and motion sensors to text you if she leaves the house.  Combined with cameras, you can check if all is okay. But there is a privacy issue obviously. 
Pills are brutal. There are smart pill boxes that only allow that day and time compartment to open and text you if they haven’t been taken. But for my mom, even when she has them in her hand, she  will put them down to grab water and then forget. Again, with a video camera, you can tell her to take them and watch her while she does. 

All the above require learning curve by you , not her which is an easier route.
Hey Gouda,

Yeah, the sleep thing is tricky. When my mum and I got to the point that neither of us was sleeping, and her doc couldn't provide any aids that worked, that's when I started my push to move her into long term care. Of course you'll make the best choices for you and your grandmother, but just wanted to say I feel you. 

Hugs,

CLS
