Before she started declining I used to do puzzles with my grandma. She loved them and it had the added benefit of making her think.
this takes a lot of time with the client.

you have to try everything and remember what works.

I noticed that you should never ask them what they want or give them a hard time thinking.

IF you offer something you can try something like

"Hi, i just came from the PLACE (ex. grocery, mall) and they gave this ITEM (like fruit juice, clothing).  They asked me if you can try it, and if you don't like it I can return it today.  Do you want to try it"

Also, when they are sunning down or irritated you can try  this to make them feel needed:

"Hey, I have a problem.  My friend called me again.  They told me I owe them money.  I asked them what it's for.  They told me it's for REASON.  I told them I don't believe what they are saying.  That's impossible.  Then they got mad at me.  They told me I haven't paid for 8 months and now I owe NUMBER.  I told them that is too much money.  I'm sorry.  I can't pay you.  They got mad at me again.  This time they told me if I don't pay them, they will call the police and I will go to jail.  But they think I am in ANY STATE.  Is it okay if I stay with you.  I will just hide and avoid that person.  Thank you so much"

Always say it is your favorite when you know it's their favorite when offering them something.

I have had success in making up stories that make the client feel they are needed and not focusing on them.

If the client says no or is uncooperative.  Do not ask again.  Just wait a few minutes and try again.

It is a very stressful job taking care of Alzheimer's.  Good luck
I would ask my dad "either/or" questions, like:

Do you like dirt or sand better? Mountains or desert? Blue or green? Fire or water? etc. It was fun. 

I also like this list: [https://www.alz.org/help-support/resources/kids-teens/50-activities](https://www.alz.org/help-support/resources/kids-teens/50-activities)
Don't try teaching any kind of new games but try ones that would be familiar. Card games worked well with my mom, dominoes- which were easily adaptable from playing officially with scorekeeping to just matching until someone's out, to just matching them without worrying about chains of them, to something to fiddle with and stand up to knock down. Maybe hand sewing something like a lap quilt together would be good. If she's able to hand sew now, it can also be something to downgrade, from sewing to just picking the pieces and colors to go together to watching and talking about it, especially if you use pieces cut from old clothing that she's done with. Anything you can get her involved in earlier in the disease, the longer it'll "stick". Cook together. Have her help with household tasks like dishes and laundry if that's something familiar.
Listen to music from their era.
We used to play "Mensch ärgere dich nicht" with my grandpa and just adjusted over the time. First, he played himself, then he told us what to move, then he only rolled his dice, now he is just sleeping while we are playing, waking up when my aunt gets mad with my dad again to chuckle a bit and going back to sleep.

He used to be a beekeeper, so he got his journals. First, he read them on his own, then we gave him bigger copies of the interesting articles and then we just read it to him

We also got him one of the bike things to train your hands, so he is still moving his arms (he has many other health issues too) and as his ability to move the pedals declined, we got some balls to press. And we had a very big ball to throw around in the room. As a family we are trying to hit each other, but we are giving the ball to grandpa carefully and he is giving or throwing the ball, depending on the day.

And one of his favourite activities in his late days where helping with cooking. Peeling potatoes worked for a long time. Cutting long beans to freeze them or getting peas out of there shells. And the activity he remembers us grandchildren doing all the time is making Schupfnudeln. That's a german kind of noodle, where you are only rolling the dough to thin rolls, so this worked for a long time too. And he loved to eat them.

We were also drawing and asking him about stories to the drawings, as he used to tell stories. They got way shorter and less complex, but he was still talking to us
Thank you, that's a good idea :) I hope that she has some, or maybe her family will give me some budget to buy one!
Thank you for your advices :) 

My job is only to do activities with her a few hours a week, so we mostly do fun things. She's not advanced enough for me to make up elaborate stories, but the idea of telling her that the store wants her to try something will come in handy when I will try new games with her.

I like that you created a very elaborate story about owning money to a friend just to give me an example, thank you :)
Thank you! This list will help me a lot!
Thank you for the tips! I don't know if she sew in her life, I will ask her, but I think that she likes to draw. I'm thinking of buying mandelas, and if she likes it, buy a little easel and give her painting "lessons". :)
Oh, what I forgot: when my grandma was still alive, she used to advise whoever was cooking and the person was following her instructions. That way we were also able to write down some family recipes. And we got her huge knitting needles and wool, so she was still able to do her favourite hobby.

I guess, you should talk to her and her family to figure out, what she used to do and which games she played, if she liked to cook and bake...
You seemed to be a good grandchild :) It's a good idea to read newspapers!
We had some with photos of the family. This was really great! And when they got too hard, we had really basic jigsaw puzzles for babies and the favourite ones got family photos too
Oh, that's such a good idea! The problem is that she's still an adult in her head, so I can't give her baby puzzles, but it's hard for her to do puzzles with more that 6 pieces. What I do is to take a puzzle that is already made, undo a part of it and let her redo it. :)
