Could you put a large note on the door reminding them not to open it for visitors? I'm in a similar situation but we have a short list of those allowed in as she can't be left alone for too long. Those people know the rules and do the reminding for us if we aren't there.
We have this struggle with my dad also. He gets angry when we discuss self isolating as he doesn't understand that it is for others as well as him. He thinks we're trying to keep him prisoner. He lives at home with my mum, who is on immunosuppressive drugs. It's a real struggle,I usually share the fare but I'm trying to avoid seeing them in person particularly as I'm a frontline healthcare worker, and don't want them to be at risk! 

Patience and repeating the information has worked so far but mum is already losing her patience having to do so much alone!
Big notes on doors, as others have suggested, are a big help for things like not inviting the neighbor in.  With my grandfather, we have give him a large container of pocket change to sort and stack to be rolled and that keeps him focused and occupied for hours.  The stacks get put back in the container after bed and we can repeat the next day if he seems anxious or looking for something to do.
Thanks for all the suggestions folks, mercifully it seems like I might be able to keep an eye on them both myself now as my work have (in principle) agreed to let me take a 3 month leave of absence to care for them while they are meant to be isolating themselves.
I think it'll have to be something like this, ideally with another for people outside to let them know they shouldn't come in if the offer is made.
And put one outside for visitors.
I think this pair of outside and inside notes is best. If you indicate they are under self-quarantine, that should make them really not want to come in and minimize contact.
Write a note. It's exactly what we did today. A note on the inside at eye level. Just before opening the door they will see it and read it if it is addressed to them
Why note put a note telling visitors that they must communicate through the door/window and for paid deliveries, leave bill on doorstop back away 6' and then collect after resident is inside
