i would contact a few different places and see what suits you best. i would also get in touch with his insurance. at the facility i work at theres a lot of strict guidelines from the insurance companies they need to meet to qualify his insurance should also help cover the cost
I'm not in the US, but I'm pretty sure they aren't called "foster homes" anywhere. Thats for kids. The terms you are looking for are long term care, nursing home, or assisted living. I just wanted to mention that FYI as it will help when talking to others about it and searching one out.

In Canada there are two types of POA, finance and healthcare. If you have POA for medical decisions or both then yes you would be able to make him go, here in Canada at least.
It's called adult foster homes in the US on the west coast where I live.  It's not the large assisted living facilities but small residential homes where the owners of the homes and whoever they hire take care of maybe 5 or less seniors (around that number anyway).

Unfortunately, I think canada is very different than the US so I have to get us info.  Thanks tho.
Interesting. I have never heard them called foster homes for adults and I have lived in a few different cities on the west coast. The foster care system refers to children. You may be thinking of Board and Care homes. A board and care home is a licensed 24-hour care property. Often they are someone’s personal home.
Have you not been here a while?  Maybe it's a new term.  Both my dad's dr. And a friend of mine used that term.  Here's an article using that term.

https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.nextavenue.org/adult-foster-homes-long-term-care-option/amp/
For future posts I suggest you say something like "[adult foster home](https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.nextavenue.org/adult-foster-homes-long-term-care-option/amp/) " as you might receive more responses from people unfamiliar with them.
I'd never heard of this and live in the West Coast too. This sounds amazing, I wish it was more well known. Thank you for sharing the link
No problrm.  I didn't realize they were so uncommon even on the west coast.

From my understand you have to be careful selecting these cause with the small number of people that live there, you can't find a ton of reviews.

But it's especially great for people of different nationalities with different tastes in food.  My dad wants chinese food all the time so this helped to find a place (though I was told one assisted living facility exists also).  They are also usually cheaper than assisted living places.

Bad thing is everyone usually shares a bathroom or two.
