Music has been a lifeline for my dad. My sister got him a bunch of classical music DVDs so he can watch the orchestra while he listens, and I have gotten him a collection of musicals with lots of singing and dancing. It helps him pass the time and he can still sing along to some of the tunes.
I'm ABSOLUTELY down for this idea! My Mom went into a full Nursing Care Assisted Living Unit mid February (while she waits for a bed in a Long Term Care Facility) & they've been locked down since last Sunday evening. She has a TV, & a landline there (the kind where she can press our photo & it dials us - a Godsend) but besides calling daily & sending cards, I'm at a bit of a loss. I was inspired to see if I could maybe visit through a window, as we've seen people doing in the media over the last little while, but sadly, that won't be possible at Mom's facility. We CAN drop off packages for her, but we can't SEE her. My Mom loves music & we tried singing to her over the phone (which she found hilarious), but I'm kinda dry on new & creative ways to keep her going during this outbreak. Something I know Mom LOVES that might help others is her Digital Photo Frame. We've uploaded old & new family photos on it & she will watch that as though it was TV. She also has stopped reading/doing the crossword etc. We found food was a way to keep her happy & have packed her loads of healthy (and not so healthy) treats. Any ideas are welcome- let's help one another out & put our weary heads together!
I'd love to be able to host a digital, remote family dinner. Each family in their own home on speakerphone but eating together.  Has anyone tried?  Would just standard cell phones work okay to make sure everyone is heard or is there a technology that would help?  How to organize this?
One suggestion, in case you haven't tried it yet might be to send her some adult coloring books and colored pencil. Other art ideas depending on her abilities might be watercolors, bingo daubers, or modelling clay.

Another idea, if she has a table, is jig saw puzzles. Again, depending on her abilities, you can go anywhere from maybe 300 pieces down to 30 pieces. 

Lastly, you said she won't do technology, but have you considered an Echo (Alexa)? You can set it up and administer it and the it can be used to play music, read books or stories, tell jokes, etc.

Best of luck!
I was also thinking about trying to set up something like the military and schools or social service organizations connect up to have children make cards for deployed soldiers, especially those that don't have a strong family and friend support system .

  


While kids are out of school, they could make a card, drawing, write a note, or share a unique skill to share with folks stuck in lockdown. They might even be able to incorporate it into a homeschool curriculum for language arts or art. Maybe even history, gain information from a first person resource, to write about a historical event or time period.

  


Not sure where to get started with something like that.
I handed the staff flowers to give to my mother, and some new make-up, Melissa & Doug watercolor and coloring book with crayons, color pencils, and eye shadow brushes to paint with.

Edit: I've found that adult coloring books can sometimes be too intricate and may overwhelm my mom. She doesn't seem to take offense to the simpler kids activity books/pads, but others' might
My mom works for a hospice agency and all of their nursing home patients are going through the same thing, the volunteer team and I have actually been getting permission to draw cute stuff on the outside of patients windows and singing to them. It has made them just sit there and smile and its the most precious thing on this planet
Hello! I am sorry to hear you are dealing with this. It’s a hard time for your loved one as well as you. I am in the same boat with my mother. No one out or in.. hopefully that ends soon! 
I will try and remember what my mother enjoyed at the beginning of her journey. These were the top ones:
She used to love music! We always had her favorite music on. She also loved to color and make cards for people. We just gave her construction paper and crayons and she made them whenever she felt like it. She also loved word searches. Those came in super handy and it kept her mind active. If you can print out pictures of family and make an album that she can look at to pass the time. We did that and included the names and even ages of her loved ones. We used to give her magazines to read but also ones that she could cut out pictures that she liked and either save them or just glue them on paper as a collage she would enjoy looking at. Large print playing cards was another one she liked. She also likes to just fold clothing to pass time. And the last one I can think of was a wooden puzzle by Melissa and Doug. I forget the exact name but it was on Amazon and it may have been 20 dollars and it was a wooden and it had a pattern and shapes that she had to match the pieces to. I hope these help you. Good luck to you!
Was the digital photo frame truly just plug it in and it's ready to go (assuming I preloaded the photos)? No extra button pushing? What brand/model? Does it allow for short video messages as well as still frame photos?
Where did you get a phone that you can press a photo to call someone? That sounds amazing and I can think of a couple people in my life that could use one.
The art supplies are a great idea I haven't thought of. I could easily do that. She's got puzzles, thankfully. She doesn't have internet access in her room, so no Alexa :-( Thank you!
This is a GREAT idea. Contacting a military base near you, as well as finding some local teachers (social media is a great place to look) to get the ball rolling. Start small, build up. We need to think if ways to bolster EVERYONE'S spirits, & if each of us did a little, we'd all be taken care of. Xo
I like the idea of art supplies! Thank you!
Depending on the one you choose, yep, it just plugs in (with preloaded SIM card) & you can make adjustments to how long the picture stays on the screen (we made it slightly longer than normal to give her a chance to go over & look at them carefully, as she likes to do). I believe the brand we bought (2nd one as her older one broke while she was utilizing it in  hospital) allows for short video clips. Either way, Mom has to do nothing with it, except enjoy.  We bought 2 SIM cards so that (under normal circumstances) we could take one out to upload more/newer photos but she was always left with a working frame. We scanned old family photos & have family overseas send pics via WhatsApp so she can stay connected to the people she loves there too. It probably is the single best purchase we've made for Mom, with the Picture-Dialing phone (that can have its ringer amplified & flashes when someone calls) a close 2nd.
The brand name is Clarity  We found it on Amazon. The buttons are big, it's a solid phone that isnt easily knocked over, & you program your Loved One's Top 9, and they give you a template to print out photos of said peeps. That was the only rinky-dinky part as I haven't enjoyed "Cut & Paste" since Kindergarten, but it's a small price to pay to have my Mom be able to call me if she needs me! Was around the $70 Canadian, if memory serves.
I'll check those out! Thanks!
