I hear your frustration and I’m sorry. Here are some things that are working for us with moderate Lewy body dementia. 

1 - we made mum move in with us. She didn’t want to, so we gently continued to talk to her about it until she realized that it was for her own safety. We gave her two rooms so she could sleep in one and have her own sitting room apart from us so that she felt more independent. She was mild when she moved

2 - i took over her meds. She couldn’t always remember to take them or if she had already taken them. Me dispensing her pills, or having in home care come to the house to do it accomplished two things. 1 - she got her medication as prescribed and 2 - she had them at the same time every day. This evened out all her symptoms and she was less up and down.

3 - routine routine routine. Getting up at the same time every day, going to bed at the same time everyday, along with consistent meal times and weekly activities also helped her to even out her symptoms but also gave her a feeling of being in control. For my mum, and i expect others too, the loss of control and independence is huge. If i can find ways to help her remember what’s going on without just telling her, she feels like she has her feet on more solid ground which boosts her confidence and helps her memory too

4 - a big white board. We have a 3x4’ white board in the kitchen. Every night after she goes to bed i write out the next day, the date, and what is happening that day in big block capital letters. She can look there herself and figure out the day without having to ask me. Again this makes her feel more in control and also not as embarrassed. In the early days i also had a list on it of what was coming up in the future, friends visiting etc. However as she has progressed we have dropped this she can no longer figure out whats for today and whats for tomorrow. Now we just focus on today.

5 - talking to her with compassion. This took me a long time to figure out, but its crucial. I don’t keep things from her for long but try to gently and calmly discuss whats happening to her. I try to reframe whats happening in her mind with metaphor so she isn’t so scared. For example, when she hallucinates, we talk about it and i remind her that her brain is like a vast city park with all sorts of paths. The maintenance crew has become a bit tired and they cant keep up with keeping all the paths clear. So now the path from her eyes to her brain is a bit overgrown and so the messages going along that path are slowed down or rerouted and a bit tattered by the time they get through. Sometimes part of the message is missing or broken by the time it gets through the park to the brain and the brain is not sure of the original message and tries to fill in the gaps and sometimes creates the wrong picture. I also assure her that this is normal and she doesn’t need to be scared. We are here, we were expecting this and we don’t mind that its happening to her. We don’t judge her and it is not a bother to us to help. 

We also remember that she is like every human being. She has an amygdala that goes into fight flight or freeze mode when her brain thinks she is in danger. When she freaks out we try to not let our own amygdala’s react. We try to stay calm and remember her brain thinks it is under attack and try to help her instead of responding. We do this by taking a breath, talking gently and calmly to try and figure out what is scaring her subconscious and set her mind at ease. Sometimes if its really bad i will give her some chocolate and play some happy music. When she found my stash of chocolate and ate it all, i hid it in a bag if frozen broccoli because she hates veggies. I always remind her that we love her even when its not true for the moment. I try to really research and consider what is happening in her brain as it starts to fail so that i can keep perspective on her behaviour. I believe this has greatly reduced the agitation and conflict that would likely have arisen otherwise.

6 - i do take care if myself. I am fortunate that i could quit my job to take care of mum but i don’t spend all my time with her. I am in the house yes, but i stay in my space and she mostly stays in hers for the bull of the day. I am not responsible for entertaining her all the time. She can do some stuff on her own and i relieve myself of guilt whenever it comes up. I go out when i can and let home care come in. I take advantage if a day program that allows her to be out without me for 5 hours twice a week. I read, i research, i go to therapy once a month and support group every other week. I volunteer. I do date night with my hubby when he’s off work. I remember to be thankful that i have the resources i do and help others who don’t. This keeps me from focusing on the hard things which can take over my thoughts and send me back to depression. I too keep routine bedtimes, wake times, and meals. We eat healthy

6 - i come on here and read other peoples stories, comment where i can encourage, and post when i need people to encourage me. I write down the things that make me frustrated but with humour that then take the sting out and make me laugh. And i am encouraged again when people laugh with me.

I hope this helps a bit. Remember you are not alone. We are all here with you.
My grandpa was diagnosed recently, but I've gotten some helpful advice from Reddit and friends who had loved ones with dementia.

One thing to keep in mind is that you have to meet them wherever they are. You can't bring them out of their reality and back into yours. Use improvisation skills, play your part in their play. You should look up "therapeutic fibbing", it seems wrong to lie to your loved ones but is actually a very helpful skill in dealing with people with dementia. 

I haven't been in this situation for long, but one thing my family really focuses on is taking as much of my grandmother's responsibilities as possible so most of her focus can be on caring for my grandfather, who has the behavior of a 73-year-old toddler.

I'm sorry you and your family have to go through this. Try to remember how scary it would be to be stuck in a reality that doesn't line up with your own. It's easy to get frustrated, but try to react with compassion. Wishing you the best
If you want a video that actually explains various scenarios from a woman who cared for her family, teepa snow has instructional videos on caregiving that are actually practical
Don’t argue with him.  You will never convince him anyway, you will just confuse him.  My Dad swears that we stole a wheelchair from the nursing home. My sister tried to tell him we bought it long before then.  He thought she’d lost her mind.  He still thinks we stole it.  That’s what they mean when they say Go with their reality. Now we just say, Oh, ok.

Therapeutic fibs will become second nature.  These are things you tell your grandfather to calm him or agree with him when he says something you know is wrong.  Ex: moderate to advanced dementia - the wife has died and the husband keeps asking where she is.  You don’t break his heart over and over by telling him that she has died.  So instead, you say she went to the store, or to see her best friend, or she’ll be back tomorrow.  They won’t remember anyway, at that point in their illness. 

This illness is a huge adjustment as they progress.  Remember to take deep breaths and try to find humor where you can.  It will help you keep your sanity.
I mean, in my experience so far, that video is spot on.
Thank you so much.

I am sharing these with my family and hoping that they find them as helpful as I do. I know routine helps me personally and I don’t even have issues coming anywhere near dementia. 

Thank you for so much good insight. I appreciate you.
Thank you, and continued luck with your own.
Checking it out now. Thank you!
My grandfather is a damn funny guy. Very dry sense of humor. He told me the same joke several weeks back about 2 or 3 times during a family gathering. He didn't realize it, but he was really making a great dementia joke, in a way. Made it easy to laugh a little bit each time he told it.

Thank you. It's good to know that Therapeutic Fibbing is going to be one of the paths to success.
