That's surprisingly wholesome
A friend of my mum had a dad with dementia. He was a heavy smoker and one day he woke up and totally forgot that he smoked. They went around the house and took every ashtray, lighter and any cigarettes away and he never asked for them.
That’s wholesome, sad, then wholesome again.
My grandma has dementia also and is still insisting on living alone (it’s getting close though) and she was absolutely convinced someone had been in her house while she was on her daily walk around the block. She had spilt water on the floor while watering her plants and forgotten she has done so, and happened to shuffle into the puddle an hour later in her slippers. Thank god for Blink cameras though.
Your uncle doing that nice gesture to keep her safe is awesome. I'm sorry to hear about your grandma, I hope the time she has left is spent wonderfully with happiness
Grandma knows. Why would she ruin a good thing, she's got herself setup for free cigs now.
wish i can relate. my grandma smokes 5 boxes a day and her organs are still clean i want her genes
The things we do for those we love.
Both sweet and sad.
This was such a strange, yet amazing thing to make my whole day
Wholesome Uncle. Nice. May you all stay healthy.
I didn't know providing someone with sigarets could be this wholesome.
This is how religions get started
Do we have the same grandma?
Chaotic good
Your uncle is a good man
couldn't you just sneak a nicotine patch on their back or something? 

Would they even remember to smoke if they never got the cravings for nicotine?
OP’s uncle, Trevor, smokes - let’s go.
She probably know
Your uncle is a hero.
"I think we have a magical cigarette pack" Semicit.
 Slowly killing her instead of a quick death with corona
this kind of blatant dismissal of reality is mental illness
I couldn't agree with you more.
On the one hand he is giving her cigarettes on the other hand he is keeping hear healthy and safe... Smoking saves lives in those desperate times.
What a delightful fantasy. I quit so long ago I can't remember the date, 10-15 years. I wish I could get my mom to quit. To some people in her generation they've been programmed to think smoking is part of their personality, that they won't be the same person after quitting. 

Not to imply quitting is easy. 

I tried gums, patches, lozenges... Chantix finally worked for me, but I don't judge because my quitting had almost nothing to do with personal strength or perseverance.

I quit because I was lucky to be born during a time when a cure for my addiction would be developed. Also, I was lucky that that drug even worked for me, because everyone else I watched try it failed to quit.
I would say that wholesomeness and sadness go in parallel in this case not one after another.
Yeah I was gonna say from the title, doing this is gonna make her think she’s going crazy. And then I read that she already has dementia and I was like oh well that’s good then, and also oh dear that’s awful.
My father had dementia before he passed a couple of years ago, and your grandmother's behavior is exactly what he experienced. He became paranoid and believed that someone was trying to steal the deed to his house. It wasn't logical, and we presented him with proof practically every day to reassure him that he had nothing to worry about. 


That was a mistake, unfortunately. I learned later that you cannot directly challenge a person with dementia, because it only makes them get defensive and more confused. From their perspective,  you've essentially told them that the sky is purple instead of blue. It shakes their confidence, and makes them question their sanity. There were a few occasions where my dad said "I think I'm losing my mind," which he literally was. It was just awful. 

Anyway, here are some "don'ts" when dealing with a dementia patient: 


- Don’t reason.


- Don’t argue.


- Don’t confront.



- Don’t remind them they forget.



- Don’t question recent memory.



- Don’t take it personally.




The best thing you can do is to change the subject when a delusion like that comes up. Try gently listening to their concerns, reassuring them, and then talk about something else. An activity is great. Ask them if they're hungry, or ask them to help you with something. 



Last, be aware of a phenomenon called "sundowning." Is her daily walk around dusk every day? If so, that may be what's going on.  Either way, dementia patients become extremely confused later in the day. 

Here's a link that discusses the term in detail: 

https://www.nia.nih.gov/health/tips-coping-sundowning



I'm so sorry that your grandmother is having to go through this, and that your family is experiencing this. For my sister, dad, and I, it was an absolute nightmare.  If you or anyone reading this has questions about dementia care, *please* do not hesitate to send me a message. I will  be more than happy to provide any information or support that I can.
Sounds like you want her organs too
> sigarets
The post says she has dementia...
OP literally told us all she has a mental illness that makes her forget reality, so thank you for that insight.
Wrong.
She's old and had dementia? Smoking is bad but let the woman have her cigarette. Not to be bleak, but it might be one of the few things she has left.
wh*s*ole*a*so*d*me
If a patient with dementia is saying that someone is trying to steal the deed to the house... Then how do you reassure them without doing all the things you said. 

Do you say "I'm sure everything is fine, so how was your lunch today?" Or what? I have no experience with this.
that can be arranged...
I wanted to explain by saying I'm not a native speaker, but the right spelling is in the post so I'm officially stupid.
ILL TAKE THAT ASS 100% ACCURACY DIAGNOSE RATE TY VERY MUCH
obviously i used
my DEDUCTIVE
reasoning skills to DEDUCE that without ur shity tier 1 hack humor smug bitch boy response
I was beeing facetious. :) and yes, apparently that's how it's written
You redirect them. Say oh no that’s sounds scary we’ll be sure to call someone about that this afternoon. Hey could you help me figure out how to make this soup? Do you think we need potatoes in there?
and I oop
You’re doing your best and you’re doing a great job.
you tried and that’s what matters. i spell things wrong constantly and i’m a native speaker. 
you’re doing well.
jesus are you trying to be funny or smt
Yeah that's pretty much what we started trying to do. I would reassure him that we'd call my aunt (he inherited the family home from their grandmother), and then ask him for his help on something. 

The thing you don't want to do is argue. Something like "I told you this a thousand times! You own the house!!!" You have to give their concerns validity, because to them, they're experiencing these fears for the first time. The worst instance of this was when he just realized his parents died and was convinced that he didn't attend their funeral the week prior. In reality, my grandmother died 20 years before and my grandfather died 40 years before. And of course he grieved at their funerals. I really didn't know what to say. This is a horrible, horrible disease.
Oh, did you mean 'Jeans'?
she doesnt wear jeans
