In my caregiving situation, I was fortunate enough to have the physical and occupational therapists in my aunt's inpatient rehab coach us both on various types of transfers and fall recovery situations (some of which I put to them) because the only prior medical training or certification I had was CPR in middle school life science.

Obviously, this isn't an option for you unless one of the other caregivers who come in are PT/OT. Do any of the others have more training than you? And, if so, can you arrange to be there for part of that person's shift to get some basic instruction? 

Also, I googled the search term "how to move a patient from bed to a chair" and there appear to be a number of videos available for all sorts of transfers. The one I watched seemed consistent with the instruction that I received.

But, and this is important, if your patient is not able to effectively assist you...in an inpatient care situation there would likely be 2 staff members doing transfers, especially if no Hoyer was available. Please tell me that you at least have a transfer belt!

Frankly, it sounds as if your patient may be nearing the time when in home unskilled care is no longer feasible. I think I would arrange a conference call with the other carers, if possible (since face to face is inadvisable due to current events), and see if they also feel overwhelmed and like they may soon be unable to safely care for him in his home. 

You'll either get some reassurance and great tips or a collective, "OMG, me too! I've been trying to figure out when to have that conversation with his wife."
I'm assuming he's bedbound at this point? Since he is 100% dependent on someone moving him? You can do total care in the bed without much lifting. Does his wife have him in a normal bed or is he sleeping in a hospital-style bed? In a normal bed, his wife can get a bedrail that slips under the mattress and he can hold to it (use simple commands "Hold the rail, help me out please!" and use the disposable diapers or pads under him for incontinence. For bathing, it can be done with warmed wipes or washcloths with little water and low-suds body wash. Tons of videos for this if you're interested on Youtube.  


If his wife can get a hospital bed for him, that makes transfers and bed mobility so much easier because you'll be using better posture as you care for him. Medicare will pay for the rental if she's interested in making his transition to total care easier on everyone.  


You'll need to keep an eye on areas he may get pink spots on his skin from being in bed a lot. Good places to check are the heels, ankles, tailbone, hip bones, and elbows. If he shifts on his own still, he might be relieving his own pressure plenty.  If he is receiving home health at all , a nurse fo PT/OT can definitely spot you and make sure you are trained for safety - but honestly, I think you will pick this skill set up quickly and be safe for both you and your client. At all times, if you truly feel you can't do this, tell the wife and your agency (if you are part of one) so that they can be aware the changing needs of the client need to be addressed.
I'm no expert, but if my husband's condition deteriorated, I would contact the agency that provides his home health aide. So I'd suggest contacting your agency to see how they want to handle it. Good luck. Keep us posted.
We have a gait belt, but now he is completely unable to assist in transfers (100% dead weight). We just recently got him on in home hospice care, but that consists of one visit a day M-F from a nurse or bath aide. All the other times he must be moved are all on me.
And the wife is convinced this is all temporary and he'll he able to stand and possibly walk soon so she doesn't feel any other accommodations are necessary at this point.
Thank you very much, I really appreciate your advice
I don't work through any agency. They employ me directly.
The hospice nurse should be able to instruct you. Ask. If his/her schedule doesn't coincide with yours, call them to ask for instruction. Be specific and speak to his hospice nurse directly, if possible. 

("I'm Mr So-and-so's home care aide. I haven't worked with a patient who is unable to assist with transfers before and I am worried about one or both of us being injured if I do it improperly.  Is it possible for you to give me some pointers?")

You should be prepared to be there when the hospice nurse is scheduled, even if it isn't during your usual hours. They want you all to be safe and for him to be well taken care of...this is a very reasonable ask.
Then perhaps ask their care coordinator or social worker.
The hospice nurse came today and helped me with everything. I'm a lot more confident now. Thank you!
I'm so glad you were able to get it sorted so quickly! I can imagine just how much it was affecting your stress level :)
