The collapsing then deep sleep sounds like a seizure. Was she snoring loudly? My little dementia patient started having these and was put on keppra and they stopped. They didn't always detect the seizure on the bran scan , but I was with her when they happened. Best of luck to you.
My grandmother sleeps a lot and is hard to wake. Sometimes just drifting off mid word. She has Alzheimer's as well. But she is past the point of making coffee or feeding herself etc. I would consult her primary care(via phone or Skype) and watch for other symptoms. Make sure she's got plenty of fluids and healthy diet. She could have low blood sugar or be dehydrated all things that are exacerbated by the Alzheimer's.
Yes. But she's usually snoring like that. The neurologist said we should call ambulance a third time if she continues to sleep and ask (demand) for a brain CT scan, since no diagnostic can be given without it. Thanks.
Also - How many hours did your patient slept? My grandmother is currently sleeping for 9 hours, from cca 7AM till now (15PM), and she previously slept over night aswell. We worry about the fact that during this time she didn't drink any fluids (we tried to give her water, but only by watering her lips, as we cannot wake her up).
Her Alzheimer is in early stages, and this thing caught us off guard. She is currently sleeping for 7 hours and a half, we tried to give her water but it's quite difficult since she is a deep sleep. Paramedics suggested a CT scan, but only if she doesn't wake up (trying to avoid hospitals during this COVID19 thing). We will try to call her neurologist as soon as possible.
Thank you for your time <3
I know when my patient has had seizures, 2 of those times, she didn't convulse, she just collapsed and instantly started snoring very very deeply.  She also snores at night sometimes, but this was way different, there was no time whatsoever between collapsing and loud excessive snoring with sleeping.  I've read it can be a sign of a seizure after trying to learn more.
She can sleep anywhere from 8pm to 8 am, or 6:30pm to 10 am.  She does get up at night to urinate quite a bit, which could be contributing to her tiredness, but overall she sleeps for really long periods of time at night.  She has been on seroquel 25mg which helps her sleeps and has ended most night time hallucinations.
Coconut water is full of electrolytes.  While she is awake we try to get her to drink as much as we can get in her, ice water, coconut water, apple juice, gatorade.  As long as we keep up with that, we keep the dehydration at bay.
Some days, ifI were to let her, I have no doubt that she would sleep even more.  I get her up, feed her, wash, etc., then she ends up some days napping in recliner anyway.  But I find it important to get her out of her actual bed.

Best wishes to you and your family.
Oh I'm sorry. She hasn't woken up at all since the fall?
