i just got guardianship of my mother three months ago. from what you describe, it'd be a hard sell to get a court to grant this just based on hygiene. plus, like you suspect, all the agencies are overburdened. whenever things turn back to semi-normal, pursue guardianship if you think it's warranted.

in the meantime, if your parent is acting like a kid, treat them like a kid. show them that there are consequences to their actions. if he won't practice good hygiene, you have to treat his home as if it was contaminated, so you stay away. refuse to allow him to come to your place. set boundaries and enforce them. that's what i have to do with my mother. 

it totally sucks being a parent to your parent. just try to remember this when you get older and don't put your children in the same predicament.

good luck.
In sympathy: My mother has memory loss/dementia (I don’t live with her, my dad takes care of her). She can’t hold a new concept in her head more than minute. Additionally, she has a few loose teeth and food gets stuck in her gums, which leads to her picking at her teeth, which exacerbates her gum issues... it’s a spiral. We removed all the floss in the house because she was flossing obsessively, carrying around a dirty string all day long. 

Combine this with her never really having a good sense of hygiene, and I would watch her pick her nose, then wipe her nose with an old tissue, then use it to floss her teeth, then use it wipe whatever surface is in front of her. I was never taught to wash my hands after using a toilet. She is an infection just waiting to happen. 

And having said that, as much as I love her, and my father, and our entire family, she just can’t be trained out of it. It’s old habits. The best I can do is beg them to stay home, hope my dad follows all the advice to keep themselves clean and isolated, and the rest is up to... god, the universe, whatever. 

You can’t change him. He will do what he will do, and absolutely you should protect yourself. I don’t know what you should do. Ask your mother and sister to move in with you, hoping it will shock him from his behavior? Report him to services? I don’t know. If your sister can keep them at home and she is very careful about her outings, they might be ok. After all they’ll just be passing their own germs within the house. It’s bringing the outside in, that is the worry. 

But I completely understand your frustrations and fear, I really do. We all do.
have a serious talk with your dad and tell him that whats going on is very serious, people are dieing. That you have an obligation to safeguard you and the child and that if HE doesnt take the precautions needed then you cant be over there. maybe he will wise up. 

My dad is a narcissist and has dementia and parkinsons. Unless its his own idea he wont do anything. He has swallowing issues that could lead to serious complications yet refuses to believe it.
I don't have any suggestions since my parents are the opposite, which is stressful in its own right, but wanted to send hugs. 

I do agree about pursuing some sort of guardianship, power of attorney. You'll want to protect your mom and sibling(s) from him, should he become dangerous. Everyone's emotions are running high right now.
>it totally sucks being a parent to your parent. just try to remember this when you get older and don't put your children in the same predicament.

Honestly, my biggest fear is that I might do this to my child when I get older. My parents have always been immature (I've had to financially bail them out a few times and they are exhausting drama queens). So I've been parenting them since I was a kid. And I just pray I can break the cycle and not fall into that trap after my kid is born.  :(
Sadly, moving my mom and sister into my place isn't an option because my fiance and I live in a small apartment and we have a baby on the way (plus my mom would drive me crazy LOL).

&#x200B;

I'm going to try and see if calling 211 and asking for elder care services will accomplish anything. At this point, I'm more concerned about my mother and sister than I am for him (since his only outings are to the doctor and he wont wash upon returning home from a medical appointment). I can't help wondering if that counts as "being a danger to himself and others" with this awful virus going around.
Being self aware is the most important thing. You'll probably not make the same mistakes they did, but you will make mistakes, and that's ok. As long as you learn from them, grow, and change yourself as needed, you and your children still be fine.

For example, my mother could never, and still can't say, "I'm sorry". She was never at fault in anything that mattered. She'll say, "I'm sorry you feel that way", which puts the blame back on the child. I have apologized to my kids many times, pointing out where I know I messed up. And when I get called out on my mistakes, I try to take a moment and see from their point if view, and apologize and discuss things out when things are calm. I know I've screwed up many times, and will continue to do so, but I think my kids see me as a real person with faults, instead of the perfect person who's always right like my mother thinks she is.

Good luck. You'll be a good parent. Give yourself a break.
