It doesn’t make you a horrible person. Understand that you deserve the same grace and patience you are giving to your grandparents. This job ain’t easy especially when you have yet to fully experience, engage and build a life of your own. If you are feeling “done” or burned out then that is what you are. You still have a lot of life to figure out so perhaps its time to make a choice to do that. Just a thought. Sometimes we have to make the choice between a crappy choice and very crappy choice. But you need to also consider your future and your mental, spiritual and financial well being.
Everyone of us has probably had this thought while watching our loved ones suffer. 

You ask why God would keep him alive,  I say we men are the ones keeping your grandfather alive, not God. He would have passed naturally without treatment. I don't know if that helps with your faith. I  watched my mother suffer devastating treatments that didn't do much but make her sicker and there were many moments I wished her suffering would end. The guilt part comes because I knew a part of that was me wishing my life could go back to normal too. Both those feelings were legitimate and guilt is just a BS emotion that truly kind people experience more than they should. Only feel guilty for things you've done, not for thoughts you've had.

Good luck and take care of yourself. These are strange times, but they too will pass.
You are absolutely not a horrible person. Caring for others is one of the toughest jobs there is. Is the any way you can get your grandpa into a care facility? 

I really hope things turn around for you. I've had my life revolve around someone else's shit schedule as well and I know how miserable it can be. Wishing you strength and mental fortitude!
I imagine if he was in his right mind he might want to die because he would probably be so miserable. So no, you’re not a horrible person. You recognize the suffering he’s going through and hate seeing him that way. Death would be a relief for him. I feel bad for him. I too hope he’s released from his pain soon because that’s no way to live.
[deleted]
Thank you for your kind words. I've been trying to work on me, but it's so hard and I have so little time.
Thanks
Thanks. Unfortunately we don't have the money for it. I've looked at some government programs, but the best they can do is stuck him in the cheapest place they can find and I just don't trust them to take the appropriate care. He's very difficult.
Thank you!
Thanks, I understand.
