My spouse has a visiting caregiver (29 hours per week).  She takes her temperature twice a day, washes and puts on clean clothes before starting her shift, sprays with Lysol in an outer room when she arrives, scrubs her hands thoroughly, and then she wears a mask and gloves any time there is physical interaction.

And, she has stopped seeing or visiting her grandchildren, so she doesn't bring something in to work with her.

These are hard times, and home health care workers can be essential (like when someone is paralyzed and needs 24/7 care).  

Be safe, be well, take extra-good care of yourself.
My husband is bed bound and receives 21 hours of care per week with and extra 4 hours of respite as needed.   the Caregivers are awesome.  They all wear masks and gloves, use hand sanitzer etc.   A couple of them have kids and elderly parents and have decided to self isolate.   But their co workers have stepped up and there has been almost no change in his care.
My mom has a psw come 2 times a week free from the government  program . Most of the psw from the place they use quit about a month ago. They are afraid to work now.Somedays they can't find anyone to come  and it gets rescheduled a day or 2 later.
I'm still working but I make sure to tell them I have been visiting with other clients that day and I will have been in multiple homes all that week. 

I try to give them all of the information so they can make an informed decision on the matter. I think that's important. I also tell them it won't hurt my feelings lol far from it.
Hi, first of all, being a caregiver is perhaps the best rewarding job. I am glad that you are so much concerned regarding the safety of the elderly for whom you are caring. I would like to add a few things that might help you: 

1. Stop panic: The pandemic is surely a big concern but unnecessary worrying won't be the solution for anything. 
2. Follow Preventive measures: It is crucial that you continue to care for the elderly since you are caring for him from a long time, which is the reason they might get used to it as they have Alzheimer's. Do follow hand hygiene, social distancing, and make sure they don't step out of home. 
3. Restrict visitors: Since the elderly you are caring for is having severe underlying ailments, it is crucial that you restrict visitors. If necessary, use video calls for any purpose. 

Believe in yourself that you won't be a virus career if you maintain proper hygiene and use proper personal protective equipment. 

God bless you both:) take care
The hardest part is trying to explain to the many clients suffering from dementia why they can't leave their house or why family isn't visiting anymore. Feel like we are just repeating ourselves constantly for hours on end.
About 3 of my clients have cancelled. I'm still with the other 3.

 They don't really have options because if I don't visit them, they don't eat.
