Before anything else: I'm so sorry. I remember the kind of blank anxiety I felt shortly after my mum's diagnosis. It's a scary place to be, with so many unknowns. You're asking good questions, and you seem like you've got your business together... But I'd like to say explicitly that although I'm going to speak mostly about your dad here, please do make sure you take some time to figure out your own support system in these relatively early days. You're at the beginning of a challenging journey, and you might not have the time later to figure out where to turn for counsel, assistance, and/or comfort. 

Onward...

My mum's doctor constantly underreported my mum's status. It was wildly frustrating, because I didn't know enough to make plans accordingly. I ended up bringing in support late, becoming involved in her finances late, and planning a move into long term care late. This to say: trust your instincts. You see your dad more often and in more varied circumstances than his doctor does. 

So what to do? Two things, from my pov. First: record everything, and only intervene if you must. When you have a record of the breadth of your dad's behaviours, go back to his doctor (in confidence) to explain your concerns and to enlist the doctor's help. Even if there's nothing really to be done just yet, having a record of where he's at now will help you more accurately track and maybe even anticipate his progression. (In my mum's case, her doctor's support meant both medicine to help manage her anxiety and referrals to in-home support services.) 

Second: start laying the groundwork for where you think your dad will be a year from now. If your intention is to keep him at home for as long as you can, this will mean simplifying his environment and his day to day. Some ideas: See if you can replace his radio with a one-button (off/on) device. Write out instructions for how to use the washing machine. Install remote access on his computer so you can log in and problem solve from afar. Acquire and program a simple land line telephone so he can get used to using it. Bring in a companion sooner than later so he learns to trust and enjoy the extra company asap. Start a meal delivery service (like meals on wheels) so that he gets used to having a person stop by at lunch. The idea in all of this is that he won't be able to learn new things or new technology later on, so if you can make it part of his habit now he'll be able to hold on to some independence as the disease progresses. 

An extra little note before signing off: make sure his legal paperwork is in order. If he doesn't have a POA then you'll have some hurdles to jump through to make sure you're able to advocate for him moving forward. 

Best wishes. Truly.
We had a meeting with MIL's doctor, Myself, partner, MIL and doctor. She was looking at patterns on the wall while we were explaining the circumstances. If someone wasn't directly talking to her she had no idea what was being said for whatever reason. I told the doctor to mark a referral to the geriatrician as urgent and stressed the urgent part. Did she, no. My partner while in the presence of the doctor fired questions at his mother to show the doctor how far gone she was. "you still cook don't you mum" yes.  "you still drive to the shops don't you mum" yes etc. The doctor took it that she still could and didn't even understand that we were trying to show that she was delusional. We are still angry at that doctor. ln short, they underestimate greatly.
My family went through something similar with my MIL. In the earlier stages of dementia, they still have some capacity to mask their symptoms for a short while. So, my MIL would show me and my husband the worst of her symptoms but when we tried to get her evaluated, she did her damndest to make us look like the confused ones. It worked on the first doctor we took her to so we unfortunately were initially not able to get her help. She refused it and managed to keep it together long enough to get a MCI diagnosis when it was clear to us that she was further down the dementia trail. We had to let her symptoms get worse before we were able get her condition stabilized but at that point, she also could not live on her own. So, we put her in assisted living. 

My MIL worked as a translator and she worked up until about 6 months before we moved her to assisted living. I can't imagine she was able to provide reasonable translations given that she could not cook for herself anymore but there was nothing we could do.

I know this is a hard thing to watch happen, especially given how hard it is to intervene. Apparently research shows about 1/3 of people who get dementia conceal their symptoms until they can't anymore so denial is a normal response. 

In terms of his beliefs about his career, just agree with him. It is pointless and cruel to burst the false beliefs of people with dementia. My MIL believes she owns her assisted living facility and that the people who live there are her employees (the staff) and tenants (the other patients). She also thinks that once a remodel happens to my house, she will be moving in with us. Neither is true but we go along with it and so does the staff. My husband was lucky enough to get his mother to give us power of attorney before she got too bad off, so we have control over her finances and medical decisions. Is assisted living a possibility?

My husband worries about getting dementia too but we just hope that by the time we are retired, there will be better treatment options. Good luck and feel free to DM if you want to chat more.
[deleted]
Psychologist in a geriatric home here.

Ask your doctor to do the mmse (questionnaire). Those questions are hard to bluff.

Homes are there to relieve family of the often intense care for the patient, and to keep them safe. However, moving is a big life event and takes patients out of their known habitat, so a lot more problems will come to light as they suddenly lose their routine. They will live together with other severely ill people, and that will have some effect too. They will often get a big jump in their symptoms, and not in a good way. Prepare your family for this, as it will be hard.

Plan ahead. Don't wait until you can't care for them anymore before you sign them up. The personnel is often very, very good at interaction with patients. Do scout a home or two, as conditions can be wildly different.
Thanks. I've tried contacting the dept of aging but they have been almost no help. You have some really good pointers that I'll have to adopt. I actually have POA paperwork that I made out this weekend, just need to get it signed in the next couple days. I wish I had my re time to devote to this but I have to work and just traveling to his house is an hour each way.
Thanks for the link. 
I took him to a specialist and she had an MRI done. She said there is shrinking present and it is on the boarder line for a positive diagnoses. She recommended to scan him again next year, ND do a pet scan at that time as well.
Again, so much empathy. My mum was 3.5 hours away from me. Oof. A heads up that he might be cranky about signing POA forms... Lots of folks with dementia (reasonably, if you think about it) are defensive about their condition. Legal documents can feel like losing power. If he gets upset, try to reframe it as a favour to you, and as the smart thing to do. Fib, if you must, and tell him a story about a friend whose parent lost their home to the government because they didn't have a POA. Tell him *you* have a POA. Whatever it takes to make the alternate to signing seem horrendous.
Months, a year?, Later I'm still trying to convince my grandmother to sign a POA and a new will if she wants. An out of state daughter has medical POA. After a worsening in October, I thought we were too late, but her doctor from the neuro-psych eval in January didn't think it was too late. I met with an attorney early March to figure out what we needed set up before taking my grandmother in. Asked her again and she said she didn't need a will etc. Then COVID19, so that's all on hold now.
That must be beyond frustrating, Gouda. Is the out-of-state daughter able to help with persuasion?
She is usually my go-to person when we need to persuade my grandma something. So far we haven't had success.
 Unfortunately my grandmother fractured her femur yesterday and had surgery last night. She's in the hospital for a few days and then rehab. I hope this won't set her back too much, but with no visitors allowed that'll be hard. Anyway, maybe she will agree to update her docs once she's back home.
Oof. Tough thing to deal with at the best of times. Good luck. You're in my thoughts.
