Look into grocery delivery options or pick-up which would greatly decrease your exposure. It requires some pre-planning but if very important. 
You should be doing more than just washing your hands after going out. Ideally, you need to strip down to underwear in the garage and proceed immediately to a shower. Also, watch [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sjDuwc9KBps&feature=youtu.be&fbclid=IwAR3AxHL6ga7ZokxL1f1WkTZksoIs6jfERkS77z5kEA0PHcqAEjuowQXPSH0) which gives good guidance on wiping down your groceries BEFORE they enter your home.
Just want to say, you’re doing good work. I’m in a similar situation so I can relate. But it’s just me and mom. By being there for them, you are already giving them the best protection possible, eliminating or greatly reducing their risk from outside caregivers coming and going. We’re not perfect. We’re doing the best we can. Stay strong and find a little time to take care of yourself.
We have a “ in take” area in my house for packages and groceries. EVERYTHING that comes through the front door is wiped down and sprayed. Then the perishables sit for 1/2 hr to dry and disinfect. The nonperishables sit for 24 hrs. We can strip in the garage otherwise we’d have to walk in the front yard naked. We Lysol ourselves then head for the shower. Bag our cloths then wash them after we shower.
We use Instacart, Schwan's, Costco, and Amazon to get most of our foods and meds delivered.   I also use our local grocery store's curb side pickup, but it's generally booked out 2 weeks.  We're a family of 5 with 3 kids (two very young), and though my wife and I are in our mid 40's in decent health (other than being over weight) I'm trying not to take any chances.   I'm not sure what we'd do if we both got this crap and were out of commission.  

Wash everything down as suggested and if you have to go into stores with people wash clothes and bathe as soon as you get home.  We're lucky we can work and school from home, and we've not been face to face with anyone outside our family unit for well over three weeks except for twice when I picked-up food at local restaurant drive through - but that was over two weeks ago when our county only had like 20 cases.  We're up to 66 now, and though that's I think good for a county of 245K I'm still very concerned as the new cases, hospitalizations, and deaths are not curving down in Texas.  our 'peak' isn't supposed to be for another two weeks :/

You're doing good, take precautions, wear a mask or face coverings when you do need to go out, and stay confident that this will get better in a month or two though I don't know that we'll ever be completely out of the woods until a good treatment path is in place (which I hope they have soon) or a vaccine is in place which will hopefully be next year.
All good advice from others about grocery delivery if at all possible. Although I had stocked up on staples I'm running out of fresh foods. Not imperative but I checked into delivery and it's not available in my area. SO, thinking outside the box, I'm having the delivery made to my mom's and left on her porch. I won't have any contact with her (other than waving from the driveway) but it will be nice to have eggs, bread and produce. They've gotten grocery delivery twice. It's running about 5 days out, so plan accordingly. Pharmacy has been a drive-thru. If I can stay out of stores I will do whatever it takes. Amazon is running a few days extra but still pretty regular on most things (except t.p. and hand sanitizer). 

One other thing I heard this morning is that if you MUST go out to the store then be sure to take your shoes off before you come in the house. COVID-19 droplets will fall on the floor of the store and you could easily track them in with you and then all around the house. My husband is still working and although he changes clothes when he gets home he has not been taking off his shoes. That starts today!
What do you go out for? heres some ideas

have groceries delivered, set on the porch. Anything that can, set it in the garage for a day. Everything else wash thoroughly. Chances are pretty slight of catching it from a bag or box or can but best to be safe.  After you put food away yes wash immediately and change clothes, dont let your dad help put em away.

If you go out to get meds see if they can be delivered, If they have medicare set them up with OptumRx and do 90 day supply on maintenance drugs and get it delivered.

If you need to make any check deposits? See if they can be set on auto deposit. If not see if the bank has an app, use it to deposit checks by taking a pic of front and back in the app. 

Doctors visits, whenever possible use online visits.

Need other supplies? What can you get on amazon?
I did make sure to wipes all the products with disinfectant. Wiped down the surface they were on. Changed clothes and washed all potential the contact areas. Thank you for the advice.
Thank you for the support! It's very much appreciated! You're doing much more than I. Stay strong and take care!
>except for twice when I picked-up food at local restaurant drive through 

Is this something you're comfortable doing? I know a lot of places are doing take-out but I have been quite nervous about it. Saving a bit of money not getting fast food or take-out but cooking every meal is getting old. I also feel so bad for restaurants that are trying to stay afloat. I want to support my local economy but not at the risk of my own health.
Oh wow I didn't know the droplets can be traced on our shoes! We usually leave them by the door and use house slippers. But I will consider disinfecting them whenever I go out. Thank you for the tip!
Oh of course, I do my own laundry. If my father gets need I usually call him out on it. lol For prescriptions, we usually do drive through. But my concern is now that we have to go to the lab this week for a blood test. Not sure sure how to tackle that. Maybe I can reschedule it. I'm planning on using the Walmart pickup this week, because it's mainly perishable groceries that we need to buy often.
Wiping down surfaces provides only an illusion of safety. Check the label of the cleaning product you are using and it will tell how the long the surface has to stay wet in order to disinfect.
Ok. Your posted sounds like you were just washing hands. Is delivery an option for you. Instacart or Walmart or something? Are you still working outside the home or having other interactions?
We have done takeout twice in the last 3 weeks, both times I called ahead and had cash ready, no change needed (large tip) and they put the food in the back seat.  After getting home we put the food in a preheated oven for about 10 minutes, boxes went to trash and counters wiped down good.  One was pizza the other was friend chicken -- nothing cold.  I'm still not liking it.  My wife's birthday is next week, so It old her I want to do takeout for that, something special... not sure what though.  Most of the local mom and pop places are doing takeout, and the lines seem to be VERY long, so I hope they're doing well.  The chain places like Logans are already gone and fired all employees.  So sad...  I'm not looking forward to see what we have left when this crap is over, whenever that may be.
Sounds like you're doing a good job being carefull. You folks should be fine.
We usually need products from different areas. I can try using instacart. Hopefully it's available for our stores. I no longer work I was temporarily furloughed.  The only other interaction would be for my mother's doctors appointments.
Good idea on the preheated oven. I have thought hot food would be OK, but no go on the salads or other cold prep. We only have a couple restaurants doing take-out in my town - one lonely Thai restaurant and a couple fast food (McD's, KFC & Subway). I'd skip the Subway right now. A friend of mine watched a worker texting on her phone, then grabbing gloves out of the box without washing her hands. She got annoyed when my friend asked her to start over with clean hands and fresh gloves. I'd be concerned with the cold items anyway. 

Do you have an Olive Garden? They are doing curbside pick-up in our area and have the buy one, take one special right now. I'd think the pasta would be OK since you could re-heat it pretty easily but pass on the salad. I checked into delivery for my folks as a treat, but their minimum is $75! (Not that I'm cheap but that's a lot of food for 2 elderly people.)
See if she can do tele-visits to limit interactions. Check out Walmart because they’ll have both groceries & household items for pickup or delivery
She has to do blood tests at the lab once a month and I don't think she can do that? But I did check into Walmart they have pickup. I'll definitely do that next week! Thank you again for the great advice!
You’ll probably want to set and alarm for something like 4/5/6 am because the pick-up Slots are going fast.
