Not much you can do besides confort her and try to steer her away from that memory before she gets anxious or something.
I think comforting her is the best you can do at this point. The person who did it - there's no way to hold them accountable at this point, if they're even still alive, which is unlikely.

And your mom made the decision for herself, when she was of sound mind, not to tell her sister, so it seems like a needless invasion of privacy to tell her at this point.

(disclaimer: I'm not a qualified therapist of any sort. In thinking, maybe ask if she wants to talk by phone to a rape crisis person about it?)
It could be true, but with a lot of dementia patients, its possible that they picked up the memory from a tv show or movie that was watched at some point. They could've even been confused with a past story they had been told about someone else, like a friend or family member.

Ive had it happen many times with many patients ive taken care of, and even if it is the case that it is true; there isnt much you can do about it. Other than what your already doing.
My mom said the same thing about a year ago. Worse is that I asked my aunts if she could be confusing something she'd told me years ago about her mom's stepdad trying to rape my grandmother and that's why my grandmother fled Ireland and ended up in England. What my aunts informed me that when she was 15, their uncle did try to molest my mom. They claim my grandmother never fled Ireland, though I know that's true from genealogy research.  My mom and I were very close, and I can't imagine if she really was molested that she would have kept it secret. In the end, I have no idea  what to think as she was 10-12 years older than they were, so they may not have had clear memories. Or, maybe they do and my mom finally admitted it to me now as she often thinks I'm her sister. I'll never know. But, my reaching out to them only led to more questions and no answers.
She actually said she thought she'd buried that memory and it's only just resurfaced, Crazy how the mind works...
That's the problem, you lose control of your own mind. Either things resurface or you make them up.

My mother in law would camly say she never got married or had kids, if she had them they were forced upon her.
That occurred to me too, that it might be a "memory" placed there by a tv show she watched recently. There's just no way to tell. My mom confused a photo of her dad in a WWII uniform with my father (her husband). And now she's convinced my dad served in the military and she was a military wife. So weird to me, especially as they were both antimilitary.
I ended learning and accepting that the lady living with us was basically a stranger we took care off. Took my wife some convincing and explaining. That she had to basically forget her relationship with her mother and start a new. From  time to time she would reappear, but mostly was some one new.

Before she would not eat seafood or anything but white meat from chicken or good cuts. Now she would eat without any fuss and compliment us. She was supposed to not like yogurt, but I had her eating it pretty happy.

The more we were at peace with that realization, the better it was for all of us in the house.

Granted, I had her on CBD and coconut oil which made a huge difference after two months against how she was when she came to us.

I speak in past tense because she is now living with another of her daughters in Texas and we are in Panama so I'm pretty sure we won't see her ever again unless we take a flight and for me it involves a visa. And with all this locking down that's not going to happen this year.

She would call her only son brother and my wife mother. So don't trouble yourself much about the idea she was an army wife. At least she still remembers you as her daughter, something that in my case was hard on my wife. She acknowledge her, but very seldom as her daughter it was always Miss Eli, my wife, the lady of the house.
Could you elaborate on the coconut oil and how it's helped? I tried and tried to get my mum to take MCT oil but to no avail.
Coconut has different benefits, but you have to introduce it slowly otherwise you will give her diarrhea the first week.

She came to us at 100 lbs in weight, confuse, dehidrated and a bunch other stuff.  To start she would always be hungry and telling she hasn't eaten all day (even if lunch was an hour ago).

One of the problems is the brain is starving, the person is looking constantly for food and sweets (those were not allowed in my house). Some studies suggest Alzheimer's is a type of diabetes so the brain is not properly using glucose. Your other option is ketosis right, but that is hard to achieve specially in their condition.

So each tablespoon is about 200 calories which don't get stored, they get use my the organs specially the brain. So I'm putting fuel directly to the brain and the rest of the meals go to restoring weight. We had a routine of 9 to 10 table spoons daily. We would give it to her in a cup because spoon after spoon gets annoying.

Believe me when I say she would be more focus and functional an hour after taking them. 

Some days in the morning I would give her vitamins, coconut oil and cbd and an hour later break fast.

 After starting with the oil she stopped looking for food. She gained about 12 pounds in 7 months, her hair changed, her skin improved, we didn't have any more UTIs, I think she only had one slight cold after we started. She was a lot more energetic, I got her driving the seniors car in the supermarket after a couple of months.

Evenings she would have her oil and a sandwich around 6pm no more food and would go to sleep most nights without any problems.

She did improved a lot, I knew I could not fix her due to she having some mini strokes the year prior, but she improved a lot.

I would toss an MCT capsule on her meals every day. You can cook with coconut oil or plain open the MCT capsules and just put it on her food.

I kept the habit of putting a spoon of coconut oil in my coffee in the mornings and a capsule on my wife's coffee. Now I usually have breakfast around 10am because of that.
MCT, medium chain triglycerides are given to people suffering from malnutrition, so they are good for use in patients that arent gaining weight. The body does not need use energy to break these fatty acids down to absorb them for use. Palm kernal oil is generally what is used, but coconut is a good secondary choice as well.

I dont know about the ketosis stuff, may or may not be beneficial. But mcts are a good, easy burning calorie fat that doesnt require much bodily processing compared to other sources. So youd likely see an increase in energy at least.
