The ebb and flow of the rage sucks. Hugs right back at you. I now compare myself to the crazies I've run across venturing out for food, it helps me base myself a bit back in reality and a little less in the nightmare inside this house. I skipped waiting for a decent sale and bought some DLC I've been wanting for a game. Not much, but I have something to look forward to for tonight...provided my LO doesn't go late night toxicity again.
Thank you for simply asking.  I think one of the painful parts of this process is that many don't understand this part well enough to vent to, but sometimes you need that.  Perhaps we should have a daily thread to get shit off our chests with understanding like-minds.

I'm caring for my grandmother, who is stuck in her past mode of being constantly busy and out of the house.  She was easy to appease with constant day-trips.  I'd take her to garden centres, farm parks and all the nearby attractions, which would satisfy her and tie her out.  Obviously that just came to an end.

Now she acts like I have her locked up.  I genuinely look forward to the parts of the day where she thinks I'm someone else, when she'll tell me all about what a monster I am.  Otherwise everything I say or do passes through some kind of perception filter which turns me into some kind of demon.

And to top that off, she's just lost the ability to autopilot going to the toilet.  She's giving me literal shit on top of the figurative kind.

She has already passed the point of needing residential care really.  It's been a struggle to convince my older aunts and uncles it's even an issue.  One referred to it as "a bit of forgetfulness" just a few days ago.  These are, of course, the ones who never visit or call.

But I'm kind of grateful for that now that we have this virus wiping out up to 40% of the residents in some care homes.  I'll cope for however long it takes.  Her social worker worries about carer breakdown but I was broken in a long time ago.

Some bright news though, I have the most fantastic tool for getting a little peace.  I bought her a robot cat, and she absolutely loves it.  It's called a Joy4All companion pet, and it's made with dementia patients in mind.  I really can't recommend them highly enough.  I put off getting it for a while and I wish I hadn't.  That name is very apt.  If there weren't such major consent issues, I'd show you all a video of her interacting with it.
I have been very much stressed for the past two years esp, and even more since i am working  from home right now, so i have to listen to all the emotional outbursts, rage, non compliance, and being all around toxic to both me and to my father. I am to the point where i am numb and tired. I don't even know how to repair myself... i have been to therapy, tried medication, but in general i am just so worn out, i don't know where to begin.
My grandmother received one of those cats for Christmas. She lives at home with me and real 9 cats. She wasn't too interested in the Joy4All cat when she received it and it's sat on the back of the couch, forgotten for months. However, Grandma fractured her femur last week and was hospitalized. The gift-giving cousins reminded me to take her the cat. It has kept her company and now that she's at rehab, I've been able to see her petting it thru the window. Yesterday, she decided it HAD to go the vet. I didn't learn until today that she was concerned about its hard legs. We told her the vet said the cat was ok, but had a genetic disorder that caused the stiff legs. I think my cousin will "adopt" the cat until the next time it's needed. Grandmother was also concerned because it wasn't eating nor using a litter box.
