That's hard especially if he is hard-headed. Does he lead or follow you? I am sure you stay far enough back so maybe act like you were talking to him and he started to walk away? Then immediately ask some kinda question you know he will get into. His past or a hobby of his?! I have to play games with my mother because her head is hard like a damn diamond! Just a thought.
I have been taking mum for walks and she can't seem to understand the distancing requirements.  Best way I've found is to walk behind her when someone is coming the other way and "steer" her by gently pulling her coat.

It's not the most dignified thing but only thing I've found that works
My dad has a hard time with it. He’s still functioning well enough to keep his shop open. Hardly anyone comes in luckily, but it keeps his routine going. He’d be absolutely lost without it. Problem is when someone does come in, and needs help with something, he doesn’t keep his distance. I don’t have a solution. Just wanted to let you know you’re not alone. We just keep telling him what’s going on and why he needs to keep his distance etc. He knows about the pandemic, he just can’t seem to understand that although someone might not look sick, they might still be sick. Sometimes something we say sticks, so that’s good. Usually not though.
I just took my dad shopping at the local health foods store during their special elderly hour. He’s relatively high functioning but he wouldn’t wipe down the cart, just his hands. I had to tell him multiple times to stay away from people. And when we got in the car and I started my disinfecting routine, he got huffy with me and said he’d rather stay home than go through this. I wish he’d remember that statement! Tired of being “the bad guy” because I’m getting myself (asthmatic) and him safe at home.
Leave notes/signs around the house related to common things(i.e. the door getting knocked on and what to do, in bathroom leave a note by the sink saying sing your favourite song while you scrub your hands for 20s).  Get them a shirt/hat that explains their situation.  Call them regularly! My grandma who’s 80 with dementia has 1 minute phone conversations with her friends who are just checking in on her.  Drop them off puzzles, movies, colouring books and pencil crayons.  Possibilities are endless, just dip into your creative side :)
Do you need to go out? I'm sorry to be so restrictive but it's not going to be forever.
You are definitely not alone. My dad is annoyed and can't seem to understand/remember that many stores are currently closed. "Oh, but I only wanted a *insert insanely detailed tool or bit here* so I could fix *something that has needed fixing for 20 years and he will never get around to but hey, buying new things is fun, right?*" 

Like others have said, I have to tell him lies constantly. It upsets me that this is our new reality. But I suppose being upset does nothing good. It is what it is. 

Thanks for asking the question. It helps me feel better about our situation to know others are in it as well.
My dad has this issue too, just doesn't understand and doesn't remember what we explain.  At one point he wanted to go for a walk, and my brother told him he'd have to put on proper PPE, and that was enough to make him say never mind, because he didn't want to deal with all that.
Give him a pool noodle to carry - he has to carry it horizontally and that’s how far away from people he should be. Also excellent as a sword. If you both carry one it’s a game!
My grandma passed before this whole virus pandemic, but she had very severe hallucinations and frequently became violent. The best solution for us was to redirect her attention to a past situation. Something involving her kids or grandkids years in the past; she would get involved in talking about something long past and we could passively direct her in the present.
Thank you for thinking creatively!  He's a leader--he gets impatient with how slow we walk, so he likes to speed on ahead.  And if we try to talk to him to get him back he pretends not to hear us!  Sneaky bugger.  It sounds like you're doing great with your mom--I think games are key.  My dad doesn't like doing dishes, for example, but he'll wash a dish if he's eaten something and has dirtied a dish himself.  So to get my dad to do all the dishes, my mom calls him down for "dessert" (regardless of the time of day), gives him a snack on a plate, and then when he goes to wash his own, he just washes everything in the sink!  It really does come down to making things a game.
I think that is a great way to keep your mom and others safe!  My dad is so much stronger than me or my mom, and rather than taking a hint when he's steered and moving the direction we're pulling him, he gets angry and pulls harder to go in the other direction!  I've gotten into many tug-of-wars with him this way.  Not a pretty sight, and usually I lose!
Thank you for sharing your experience.  It really does make me feel better, even if there isn't a solution--just knowing that I'm not the only one struggling with this conundrum is helpful.  Wishing you and your dad the best--and it is great that he still has his shop!  It must keep him out of trouble.
It is so hard always being the "bad guy."  It must also be rough for \*both\* of you to be at risk!  Thinking of you and your dad--stay safe.
Thanks!  Generally he's fine around the house--luckily he still has hobbies he can attend to.  The bigger challenge is when he's outside of the house, how to keep him 6 feet away from fellow pedestrians.  I'll float the tshirt/hat idea, that might work!
YES! “buying new things is fun.” <eye roll> I can totally relate.
Thank you for sharing--it really is so nice just knowing were not alone. Hang in there! Will be thinking of you and your dad.
Oh my gosh this is an awesome idea--i love it! Thank you!
Yes I see. The sympathy games help out. Anything to get attention away from the wrong things. It gets difficult for sure. Maybe you could say your back hurts or foot? Maybe that would make him hang back with you? It becomes a chore I know! My mom called yesterday about my dog. We put him down in 2018. So I reminded her and then instead of letting her start to think on it I immediately started asking her grandfathers name and just made up a story of why. It is the little things that seem to work. I’m lying to my mom, haha.
Thank you! I feel the same. And yeah, it keeps him busy and definitely out of trouble. Gives him a sense of purpose.
I mentioned the reminder note on the back of the front door, because most are still coming to the door and speaking within a few feet so I encourage my grandma to use her storm door more frequently.  She can slide the screen up at the bottom and have a conversation while remaining safe.  Tshirt/hat idea is a game changer.  If he doesn’t like it, put it as his favourite colour and throw your photo along with your sisters on it.  There’s ALWAYS a way around this type of stuff.  My Instagram is @brenden_wood if you want any more advice in the future.  Planning on taking psych in uni within the next year or two.
