It sounds like your father at the  very least needs 24/7 care if not some sort of facility. For me I realized it was time because I was still spending a significant amount of time either at my mother's or on the phone with her even with her 24/7 care. I was spending sometimes an hour every morning just to convince her to take her medication and eat breakfast. 

All of this started to affect my work performance and I realized that it was unsustainable to keep spending so much time and energy caring for her. Remember you can't take care of your loved one if you don't take care of yourself first.

Stay strong.
For us it was when my mother in law could no longer be kept safe in our care.  She constantly tried to walk away from our house and succeeded in the middle of the night twice.  It got so bad we had to put a chain lock on the main door that she couldn't reach and alarm the door so that if she pulled something up to it to unlock it we could stop her in time.  She honestly could have been put into a home months prior because she was so unsafe and had no concept of danger.
I think this has basically already been articulated, but for us it was safety too. She tried to set just about everything on fire, and even though we were live-in and with her *all* the time, we couldn't control her compulsion. So, first we went to her doctor to ask if there was anything he could do; aside from medicating her to the point of being vegetative, he couldn't. (I'm truncating here... It's all more complicated than this... but hopefully you get the point.) When her doc couldn't help us manage her behaviour, and we couldn't stop her from trying to burn things, that's when we knew she needed to be in a controlled environment. (For what it's worth, though it was easily one of the hardest things I've ever been through, she is much better at the home. I don't regret the choice.)
When we were no longer able to keep them safe while still living our lives with some semblance of normalcy.  You have value, also and shouldn't have to sacrifice your quality of life for what is ultimately still a suboptimal outcome for your loved one with dementia.
I hate to say it but it sounds like now is the time, if not soon. I am so sorry you are going through this but it is better to do it before something really bad happens. I will have to do it soon too. So I am preaching to myself as well. It is very hard and painful decision to make.
MAN so sorry to hear that, as a 51 yr old aneurysm survivor,  with a few memory issues that scares me too. But my dad passed away in February from complications to dementia,  he was 78, but was diagnosed at 68. His last 2.5 yrs we brought him back home. He did stay in a assisted living facility for 2 yrs. Until he got to violent.  But 1st , try toyr best to have patience with him. It's the hardest thing I've ever had to deal with.  PLEASE Aslo use your phne to take video and save to the cloud. They are PRICELESS 🙏🙏
For my family, it was when my loved one was unable to take her life saving medication as directed (she either forgot to take it OR would overdose by taking double or triple the amount in one day) AND was highly resistant to having help for the issue.   Her behavior landed her in the ER three times in one month.   That, combined with a fall resulting in injuries, was the breaking point.
Look at their worst days and base it on that, because it's not really going to get better.
We decided it was time when mom tried to walk away from a rehab center despite not having a key to her house, purse, money or probably any idea which way she should walk to get home.
prior to that, she let the smoke alarm go off all day long without telling anyone (it was just a low battery, but she didn't know that) and other things, but the walking away from the rehab center was the final determination she wasn't safe alone to make rational decisions.
For us it was the point when my mother couldn't stay in her house overnight without someone there and awake for good portions of the night. She could no longer remember that her house was her house so was constantly trying to leave to go to wherever she thought she lived. A month of that and her waking in the middle of the night trying to "escape" was the end of any chance we could continue to care for her as a family. My wife burned out hard giving my mother care full-time - it's been about 6 months now and she's just starting to feel better.

Frankly we should have had her into a nursing home months before it got to that point, but the waiting list is so long here and things got away from us before we realized that it was a crisis and we needed to escalate our priority with the local health network.
For us it was when MIL could no longer comprehend that her husband had died (12 years previously) She kept trying to ring the hospital or asked us to take her in to see him. The week previously she had to be told he'd died and accepted it, with terrible pain. Then she seemed to have a psychotic break I believe because the pain she had held in all those years was too much to bare. Different story butI think you're there.
When my mum became a danger to herself and others.
I’m crying a little bit reading these posts. My grandma died last April and she was in full-time care for about 9-10 months prior. I know it’s messed up for me to be happy about any of this but we are from a smaller town and I’m just so relieved to know we aren’t the only ones who had to go through this.

To answer OP: all the other posters nailed it 100%. The safety of your relative and your family/ yourself is the deciding factor. When my grandpa and I realized we could no longer keep my grandma safe was when we decided to place her in a long term care facility.
