This can be a “normal” part of the progression of dementia. Have you tried meal supplement shakes like Ensure?
Does she have heart disease? It could be a feature of late stage dementia, but it is also very common for people with advanced (Stage 3 or 4) heart disease to suddenly lose interest in eating & rapidly drop weight. 

It can be difficult in late-stage when there's lots of other co-occurring issues in play & the subject can no longer effectively recognize or describe the symptoms she's experiencing. But it is worth keeping a close eye on it as it can be a precursor to heart or kidney failure.
Im going through the same thing with my mom. Her dr prescribed a drug called megace as an appetite stimulant and we are also having a couple sessions with a speech therapist to help with swallowing.  We started the megace a couple days ago and she ate really well yesterday. 

I do a lot of ensure high protein for her.  We changed her meds to liquid.  We do a lot of ice cream. Also when she does eat,  it has to be sweet.  So honey on everything.  Including savory things.  

It gets to a point where if it will go in,  give it to them. 

Also chocolate milk is good too.  Need the calories to keep up with skin integrity.   Good luck
I’m having the same problem with my mum. She’s about 5 years in and has eaten smaller meal portions for a long time now, but would eat loads of fruit like 3 bananas a day plus other fruit and sweets and yoghurts in between meals. 

In the last few months she’s barely eating at all and at one point lost 2 stone in 3 weeks. Like you said about your Mum mine is also eating less than 500 calories a day and says she isn’t hungry. She stopped making herself breakfast at all and started going to bed at 2pm. During the day she would just sit in the lounge with no TV on saying she couldn’t be bothered with the noise. 

I am living with her at the moment as I didn’t want carers coming and going and increasing her risk of getting Covid. I space her meals out during the day and as she can’t remember if she’s eaten, I give her two breakfasts, two lunches and where I can two dinners. In between i give her rice pudding and tinned mandarins as she loves them. I use a lot of butter, full fat milk and cheese but even on a good day her calorie intake isn’t more than 500 as she eats such small amounts. If I try to give her larger portions she leaves most of it. I’ve found if I put food into tiny bowls she is more likely to eat it. 

I’ve tried high calorie shakes but she’s not overly keen. She’s always drank a lot so I’ve bought high calorie drinks. 

It’s like she can’t be bothered to eat. I’ve noticed she prefers softer food or things like soup that can be eaten with a spoon. Anything that requires a lot of chewing and she gives up. 

In addition to Alzheimer’s mum also Multiple Myeloma a type of blood cancer so her haematologist sent her for a CT scan as he was worried she might have stomach cancer or something similar. That came back clear. They don’t want to do any more tests at the moment as they don’t want her going to the hospital. 

She was on amitryptaline for years as a pain killer and she was taken off it around xmas time when her medication was reviewed as she didn’t really need to be on it any more. This all started happening about 6 weeks after that. Amitryptaline is also used as an antidepressant so I wondered if it has been buoying her mood and her behaviour without us realising. Via her mental health team I managed to get her put back on it 8 days ago just to see if it makes a difference. I’m keeping my fingers crossed otherwise I guess I will just have to accept it’s part of her Alzheimer’s. The rest of her presentation isn’t at that stage though. I understand that not everyone follows the progression in a linear way, but this just seemed to come out of no where. 

I will do as other people suggested and buy some supplement drinks and see if that helps. 

I’m normally 5hrs away from my Mum and reliant on carers so I understand how tricky it is for you not being there. Now I’m here, on the days when she refuses to eat most things I give her I could cry though! 

Sending you best wishes and hoping your family can find some way of improving the situation.
My mother also has gone from being obese most of her adult life to looking like skin and bones. I don't know how much is a change in appetite on its own, how much loss of appetite might be a side effect of medication she's on, and how much is a result of chewing and swallowing becoming a chore for her. I do see that using utensils is something she can manage - but the motor skills require concentration and it's work and frustrating for her. She prefers using her hands, even for something like a canned fruit cocktail. That's the worst when sanitation is important. So when I visit (which I can't do now), I was bringing finger foods that weren't slimy - blueberries, grapes, kashi kids super food bites. I was about to experiment with ensure or other protein drinks, but the lockdown shut me down for now.
I recommended to family to do ice cream shakes with protein weight gainer mixed in. I'm located too far away to have much influence.
You can try brand name MCT oil pills, alternatively you can use coconut or palm oil supplements due to its high calorie content and ease of absorption in the body. You can crack the pills and put the oil in foods or liquids if she wont take them. We use them in treating malnourishment. Ensure shakes, protein shakes, any sort of high calorie liquids. 

But it is a step in the progression of most types of dementia and may be unavoidable that she significantly reduces her intake of food.
