Have you looked at Chewlery? It does fall under the stuff for kids and adults who chew for self stimulation but he might he happy with chewing on a bead/ pendant.
Have a look at autism chews on amazon. Kind of like a teething ring or dummy but for adults
I can see that falling asleep with gum in his mouth might be worrisome, but swallowing gum isn’t a problem unless he has swallowing difficulties. I’ve been a gum swallower my entire life, and my stomach is fine. 

If the issue is a fear of choking, maybe there are some types of gum that could be better. Bubble gum is too big. Even I don’t want to try swallowing it. What about smaller pieces of gum like chiclets? (Do they even make that anymore?) Or maybe mentos gum? I seem to remember some gums don’t hold their form as well and seem to almost dissolve with time and chewing. I don’t recall brands, though, so I’m not much help.
Would switching to Life Savers or Tic Tacs work?  Neither would be a choking hazard. Both would melt if left in his mouth while he slept.
I can’t say that I have personal experience with a dementia patient with a similar fixation, but would something edible be acceptable? What about Hi-Chew candies? I’m a healthy adult and a single one of those can take me several minutes of chewing to soften up enough to eat.
my boyfriend suggested this to me today. i will definitely bring that up to my coworkers as an option
What about a simple big towel? He can‘t swallow it. We had a patient who bit his fingers and gave him a towel instead.
How about chewy sweets? Like fruit pastels, jelly tots, starburst, haribo etc? They aren’t the best alternative but they could satisfy him in that he could put the whole sweet in his mouth and swallow them without them doing as much damage as chewing gum would?
i have but i don’t think he would be satisfied unless he could put the whole thing in his mouth. and wouldn’t be able to do that with the necklace bit connected. and i definitely wouldn’t want to give him one without the necklace because that’s a huge choking risk. 😞
i have looked at these but i don’t think he would be satisfied unless he could put the whole thing in his mouth. and wouldn’t be able to do that with the necklace bit connected. and i definitely wouldn’t want to give him one without the necklace because that’s a huge choking risk. 😞
