Yes, female LO with Alzheimer’s. Before she started on 3/day Seroquel,   and when she needed an increase in dosage, she would undress in front of and say suggestive sexual things to female friends and relatives. It was shocking from this previously extremely private, demure lady.
Made me reconsider why she waited until late 30s to marry. I know she joined the military to escape her family’s ‘marry young and make babies’ expectations but perhaps there was a bit more implied.
My dad was a nightmare.  He even had male caregivers quit because of the porn and products all over the place.  Imagine getting called from the assisted living director because everyone on his floor could hear the porn he was blasting.  Every woman who came within 6 feet of him got a come on.  Gah!  It still makes me cringe.
Part of the process of vascular dementia especially is to unbox those "no no" compartments of their responses and engagement process. It is hard to handle sometimes but know it is not them, but the child being told no that is reacting right now. Also there are psychotropics that help curb those behaviors. Talk to a geri psy dr and see if they can help. I have seen the medication improve the quality of life greatly for some.
Yeah, unfortunately, that happens quite often with dementia.  And often it is the shy, quiet ones that are the most noticeable - because it is so far out of normal behavior for them.  They lose their filter.  My shy awkward Dad, who was a a MINISTER, started cussing and talking about sex - imagine our surprise!  I thought my Mom was going to pass out!  She was mortified!  I had the hardest time convincing her it was the disease talking, not Dad.
I was diagnosed with vascular dementia at 57. I think the problem is, you begin to lose the ability to filter. And you have that psychological pressure of, "If I can think about ANYTHING else other than my diagnosis, I'm going for it!". There's an old adage, "If you found out you'll be dead tomorrow, what would you do today?" Not just sex, though, it's a freedom to explore. I've always been an avid student and, even with dementia, I take any online course I can. I try to ignore the other urges because I don't want to be with a partner who has to watch me go through the next stages.
My FiL has vascular dementia and has the same unfiltered horniness right now. He has an iPad that he uses to read and watch things and we keep finding him downloading porn onto it.
Im really sorry to hear about your diagnosis. 

My dad is definitely further along than you are just because he would never be able to hop on the computer and type this lengthy response with the grammatical accuracy you just did. Be proud of yourself

If you dont mind me asking, I know this is a difficult thing to talk about, have the doctors diagnosed what stage youre at?
I was diagnosed with dementia when I was teaching high school math and science. I forgot my name, where I was and why I was there. That's definitely stage 6. BUT, I've been on heavy medications, diet and exercise physically and mentally every day, which allows my brain to function on most days. Stage 2. Yet, I still have severe lapses that push me into stage 4. I think the stages are a "guide" to behaviors. Plus, before my diagnosis, I studied neurology and physiology. That makes a difference as well. Thank you for your question! It's not difficult for me to talk about at all. It's mandatory. I have a Facebook group: "Dementia family, friends and caregivers" that is global, and has members from 64 countries. Many doctors, caregivers, specialists and people with dementia are in the group. It's critically important for me to share and create awareness.
