First, sorry for the situation. Secondly, the moment you move in your life as you know it will end.

 Don't take it wrong, the moment you become the full time care giver your own life goes into pause. No more visits from friends, work becomes and issue, your stress level will go through the roof, and depending on how advanced he is your life becomes hell. This is not something of a few weeks or part of the day, it becomes 24/7. You come home from work not to relax, but to resolve problems. Then the constant passing in the middle of the night you won't sleep and it takes a toll.

We all thing is awful to "dump" or parent/family member on a home care, but the reality is this decease kills the person you knew and it also kills a bit of your soul.

If you can afford a place that has proper care and other people he can interact with do it. At least his last years would be full of interactions and if you are lucky those interactions will be great for him.
I moved in with my dad when my mom died last year. He's in about the same spot as your dad. My husband moved with me, and we're sleeping in my old room. It's been tough sometimes, but I don't regret making the move. I'm fortunate that I don't have to work. I don't know how long this will last, but I'm happy that I've been able to care for my dad.
I moved in with my parents to help my dad care for my mom. I think your capability to handle this on your own is dependent on how long youre prepared to be there. By my understanding of the situation this is going to last for many months to a year. That is a long time to do this all on your own. And there will be quite a few growing pains with your father as Alzheimer's isn't a disease that lends itself to change. He will certainly get frustrated. Practice patience and understanding, and don't be afraid to lie to keep the peace.
Thanks for the reply. It would only be temporary until things settle down because of covid-19. We were thinking of getting a professional caretaker and/or moving into a specialized assisted living home just prior to the outbreak but given how hard those places are getting hit we are holding off on that thought. He is manageable for me to take care of at the moment but a year from now definitely not so we would ideally have him in a safe assisted living place by then.
100% agree with this.  Mum lives with me and I'm attempting to combine caring for her with working.  Fortunately my workplace is at the end of my road and understanding so I'm able to pop home frequently through the day.  Lately every day has been a battle, mum is determined to keep leaving the house, sometimes just to stand out front and watch what's going on, sometimes to wander.  I get alerts when the door is opened and have a camera set up but I'm still having to run back between my "regular" visits every hour or so.

It just means I'm constantly stressed and occasionally snapping at mum even though I know it's not her fault and frankly I have no time or energy for anything else, just work, dealing with the crisis of the hour, then home, do some household chores, make dinner and then bed.

We still share some good moments but most of the time the person I'm constantly worrying about isn't even my mum anymore.

Would really recommend looking at other options  if at all possible
I disagree, You don’t just dump family members because it makes your life inconvenient. This is family. You do everything including changing your life if necessary to give them a happy healthy life. The fact that you would even consider dumping someone to make your life easier is quite sad and horrible advice
Thanks for sharing your story, I think I will probably end up in a similar situation. While I know it will get hard, I think it will be good to spend as much time with him as I can before things get really bad. When my mom died I regretted not spending more time with her so I don't want to make the same mistake with my dad.
Yeah I think seeing how long this will take will be a major factor. Initially I was just hoping to stay with him temporarily so that he didn't have to worry about shopping, meals, etc. during quarantine while we found professional caregiver and/or an assisted living place. I'll still actively be looking at both of those options while I stay with him but I don't want to rush things and send him somewhere or have someone come in only for it to cause him to catch the virus.
Great to hear you have a plan, that's important.

Take care, good luck.
After 8 months of having no life of our own, before I started to hate mother in law and possible end our marriage we had to sit down and make decisions. 

You could say is horrible, but what is the definition of a healthy and happy life for someone that calls her own daughter miss, or will say those grown kids are not her grandkids and I'm a prisoner here? What about quality of life of care givers? The fact that the capacity of earning and income to take care of her and us was already diminishing since we couldn't go to late meetings, work from home, even have proper rest to be able to function the next day.

My wife was feeling guilty at the beginning for even thinking of "dumping" her, but realistically is either "care" for the person or make money to have proper care.

So I disagree with your opinion the same way you do with mine.

Have a nice day.
I hope it goes as well as it can for you. I can tell you really love your dad.
My cousin, age 55 at the time, moved in with his mom when she got Alzheimer’s.  She lived for 15 years.  She escaped, called the police, used the N word constantly.  For the last 5 years she was bedridden.  I’m pretty sure my cousin is suffering from PSTD to this day.  Taking care of his mom was brutal and he didn’t leave the house for more than 30 minutes for 15 years.  It’s not for everyone.
We could not risk leaving my mother in law alone. She would start crying or get upset (had cameras) the few times we did. So after the lady we had would go home at 3pm one of us was always there we would rush home.

 Only times we went out my wife and I would be with her, never as a couple. 

Weekends we were stuck at home or having to go out with her.
Yep.  My mom lived with me for 5 years, I don’t regret a minute of it (she was amazing), but it was hard.
