Could you buy him some new clothes? Maybe a nice electric razor for the staff to use on him? Have a local bakery make treats for the nursing home staff. It may be death by 1000 paper cuts but you can spend it.
A new top line cushion for his wheelchair? A new blanket for his bed? New clothes?  Does he like good food or have favorite sweets - buy something he’d really enjoy once a week.
Do you mind me asking what state you live in? My mom is on Medicaid and is in the intermediate stages of dementia. As far as I know Medicaid doesn’t cover nursing homes in my state and I’m trying to figure out what my options are once she gets into the later stages.
Prepay burial or cremation expenses, if that hasn’t been done yet.
If he still responds to music at all, you get him a media player and some music. I also like the idea of getting him treats if he can still enjoy. 

Also maybe getting something for the care staff. Those places seem super high risk right now, even among high risk places. Im sure those guys would love a break.
Does he like music? Can you get him some headphones and an MP3 player the staff can help him use? Also soft fuzzy blanket maybe
If I were you I'd put it in a Money Market account at a Credit Union and get some interest accruing.  Use it for any and all expenses as all the other commenters have said, including prepping for burial/cremation/other such expenses.  Then the month before the year is up I'd pull out what's left and donate it to the nursing home in his name.
Can you put it in some kind of savings account for future possible emergencies?
 Buy stuff that will make him comfortable.  Blankets, soft clothes, a favorite snack, a radio/music dock, or a stuffed animal.
Not sure whether saving it counts as spending for Medicare purposes, but the reason for the rescue check is so people will have money to spend, to stimulate the economy. So spending it on things he doesn’t especially need can actually help the businesses you’re buying from.
Brilliant advice.
