I have never kept  guinea pigs myself, but a friend did. One  guinea  pig got away from him and disappeared into the couch. He said it took a couple days to catch it. Would your grandmother understand that she wasn't supposed to let it go? That she couldn't squeeze it too hard? Did she have experience with  guinea  pigs when she was younger and would remember how to handle them? 

Personally, I think my mum would love having a cat, but she is in a memory care place which doesn't allow pets. If she were in a place that allowed pet visits, and my cat would put up with the traveling, I would want to try it. 

If the  guinea  pig idea doesn't work out, you might want to get a very soft plush toy. One that won't wiggle to get away or hide under the bed. One that can be cleaned. One that can be hugged. 

Good luck.
My grandmother with dementia lives with me, and sometimes I bring out my different animals to show her. I have a lot of them, and the guinea pig is the only one I let her hold because I know he won’t bite, he won’t run away, and he genuinely likes being pet. I always sit really close just in case cuz she might try to put him down or hold him wrong and squeeze him a little too hard. But overall she really loves having him sit on her lap and just petting him. I think if you have piggies that are socialized and you know really well, and knowing how the person is with aggression and that kind of thing, it wouldn’t hurt.
They are still living at home so it would be okay. A scared, not so socialized guinea pig can be very difficult to catch indeed! In my experience they are calm if they are handled a lot, though one can never be 100% sure of course.

The plushie is an idea I have been thinking of too, it just on my side I find it more difficult to accept (it's confrontational).

Thanks for the feedback
Thanks. A situation like this is what I have in mind.

What different animals did you try? Does your grandmother have a preference, or is she in general happy with the pet whatever the species?
Any animal she sees she will say is cute, doesn’t matter if it’s a cat or a cricket, she will say that ”she’s so cute.” She seems to like the fluffy animals a little more because she can hold them and pet them easier. 

I have reptiles (leopard gecko and crested gecko) and fish and she does like looking at them but like obviously you can’t hold fish and sometimes she’ll want to like put her hand in the tank which I have to stop her from doing, and lots of reptiles are more jumpy and difficult. 

She likes my female mouse too, but I think that’s because my mouse is pretty old and very relaxed, she thinks my hamsters are very cute but they bite so I don’t really let her hold them, my gerbils are too high energy for her. She also likes our cats, but they’re all a little older and relaxed for the most part. 

My guinea pig has really been like a good animal to just put on her lap for awhile and she’ll just pet him and talk to him and he’s really sweet with her.
Thanks for sharing.

Heh it really sounds like you keep your grandmother entertained :)!
Well especially now that she can’t leave the house she’s been driving everyone a little crazy so we’re doing our best to keep everyone entertained
Yeah, that makes sense...
