I think anyone who believes they might have a health ailment should get properly diagnosed by a doctor. Otherwise it becomes speculation and I believe the uncertainty may bring a huge lot of anxiety.
I'm starting to wonder, too, if something isnt wrong. It surprises me that I cant find discussions about this. Most groups are oriented towards  caregivers and burnout. Or maybe by the time people realize/admit theres a problem, theyve lost certain communication skills. My mother didnt seem to have any insight into her condition until she was really far along. She would invent the craziest reasons for doing or not doing things. Its frightening to feel like you're losing pieces of yourself and no one has any idea what it's like. Did she keep her fears to herself, or was the part of the brain that would normally tell a person something is seriously wrong not working either? I feel acutely aware of each lapse, every forgetful moment, constantly misplacing things, forgetting what I planned to do next, the things I used to know well and now google.
I am so sorry you are experiencing this but I want to emphasize the fact that you are not alone. I was a caregiver but as long as you can reach out to this community KNOW that you are not alone. 

I must ask what you mean when you say your ‘brain stops working’. If you’re experiencing blackouts in conjunction with visual hallucinations, then, based primarily on the sole case of my grandma, then Dementia with Lewy Body (DLB) may fit. 

You should ABSOLUTELY seek out a specialist who deals with dementia in your area. Anyone on this sub can offer support but a doctor can offer immediate medical attention.
Gosh, it could be so many things.  You could be failing to absorb one of the B vitamins, or have an endocrine issue like out-of-balance thyroid hormones, or who knows what?  There's nothing to be done but go to the doctor.  We can't take a history, run tests.  You need someone who can. If it's an easy fix, you get your life back!
[deleted]
[deleted]
First of all, I again extend my deepest sympathies to you. I can only imagine what you are going through and give you all the virtual hugs imaginable. 

Second, my experience is limited to the singular case of my grandma and I IMPLORE you to at least share this information with your primary care physician. Any doctor will be able to offer a more educated answer.

Lastly, based on my limited understanding, you may be experiencing some kind of dementia but Lewy Body isn’t likely. Based on the symptoms you described, some form of Alzheimer’s seems more likely.
If you've been noticing symptoms for 3 years, you certainly have something going on.  So I hope you do, soon!
[deleted]
Please feel free to message me. I’ll admit I’m not always active, but I promise I will respond.
And forget “if it doesn’t get better”. If you have health insurance then contact your doctor tomorrow. Lack of coverage is the only reasonable excuse.
