Not everyone is made to be a dementia caregiver and that’s okay. Not everyone is made to be professional ping pong player either.
It's OK to know that you might not be temperamentally suited to care for people with dementia. It takes an extraordinary amount of patience & compassion but truthfullly, it helps tremendously if you keep in mind that because of how dementia causing neuro-degenerative ailments progress, the person living with the disease is, at a point, not responsible for how their brain is allowing them to analyze & respond to others & their environment. They may have mood swings, emotional outbursts & strike out but it's because they are  unable to communicate how they're actually feeling, and/or they have perceived the situation to be somehow dangerous, anxiety causing or scary & they are confused. Their behaviours can be SO different from how they were prior & in many cases, family & carers have to learn what "works" for them now. Introverted & extroverted behaviours may be retained, but people with dementia often deal with a host of related behaviors, like depression & apathy, so their affect can be altered for many reasons.

 Arguing is never wise as it just provokes, & enhances the negative & again, it's pointless because, even if you're trying to explain that "No, you live HERE - that's your husband of 45 years" (and you're 100% factually correct), the person's brain has deteriorated to the point that they cannot recall this AND they can't process the rationalization ("see, this is your wedding photo & look here, you planted this rose bush the year you bought the house"), & their brain is telling them different. You have to become "part of their world": learn about favourite people, places, hobbies, memories etc, &  learn from trial & error & LOTS of talking with Loved Ones & other professionals to see what behavioural techniques you can use to distract, redirect, re-approach & deescalate the situation so, WITHOUT restraint (as much as is humanly possible, physical or chemical "restraints" should be a Last Resort), you can keep the patient safe & cared for. You never hit back - that would be assault. You would make sure the patient is safe, remove yourself from the fraught situation & reapproach them later.

 They aren't children, but just as children should not be expected to understand & behave in a way that is not consistant with their age & experience ("Hello 3 year old. Explain to me, in your own words, what this Med-Surg textbook is stating & then, tell me how you feel about the fact that it is statistically more likely that your generation is going to be the first to die before your parents"), nor should someone dealing with dementia be expected to behave as though they DON'T have this issue. They can't control it, change it, or curb it with will power. People (carers, family, facilities) need to see around the proverbial corners FOR them & make their environment as safe & supportive as they can so that the person affected has the best quality of life that they can, for as long as they can.

In caring for people dealing with dementia behaviours (or really, caring or being responsible for ANYONE vulnerable), it helped me to remember that THIS is someone's mother, father, or child - how would I want someone to behave if this was MY loved one? The answer, invariably, is by taking the best possible care of them - get to know them, learn about their condition & their likes/dislikes, &  be kind & compassionate. My overarching takeaway is that a Caring Profession is a career that should be guided by a desire to help people, without judgement,  when they are vulnerable, a commitment to constantly obtaining knowledge about the BEST ways to keep those in your purview safe, healthy & holistically taken care of, & an attitude that will allow you to learn from your mistakes with grace & dignity (towards others AND yourself). I'm not sure where you're at in your achooling, or what clinical experience you have already, but you know yourself best. Be self-reflective - if you know that you are not suited to a certain kind of environment, that's OK. Choose an environment to work in that you ARE better suited towards & there are a multitude of facilities & home care scenarios that need carers. Whatever type of caring scenario you DO decide to concenrate on, or whatever kind of client you end up working with, start by looking at the strengths & attributes you have & ask yourself "How can I make their lives better by using my skills & personality?".  I wish you the best of luck as you continue to learn!
Sometimes it is as easy as leaving the room for a moment, and then walking back in to start the task over again.

Teepa Snow trains people on how to give better care for people with dementia. https://teepasnow.com/

Her YouTube channel has a lot of good videos that will cover a lot of the questions you have. https://www.youtube.com/user/teepasnow

This one on challenging behaviors is good. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZpXeefZ2jAM
God bless caretakers!  My Mom has dementia.  She’s thrown a coupla punches st me lately and I’m fairly certain its because she doesn’t know that I’m not the source of her physical pain. I just smile and tell her I know she doesn’t mean it and I’m doing everything I can to make her comfy as possible. She’s so tiny that those punches don’t hurt much other than the little kid inside me. I’m grown up and know better. Glad you are examining yourself and working this question out.  Best to you.
There are people in the homes I visit that don't want to shower. So they don't have to, unless they had incontinence problems. 

The care had switched from they need to be dressed and bathed every day, to their well-being being more important. If they hate the shower, they don't have to shower. They'll get washed on the toilet with wet cloths and the hairdresser will wash their hair. 

A lot of the time they are 'left to themselves' especially when they are signalling that they are overstimulated. You need a different mindset to deal with them altogether. Let go of the idea that YOU want them to do something, and just let them do them. 

It's not for everyone and violence can be hard to deal with. Your idea of dementia care is rather far from the reality, so I would suggest going to a home and experiencing it, there are so many happy moments.
It is certainly not for everyone, and that's ok. I am an activity coordinator in a dementia unit and certified dementia practitioner. I am not the one giving showers or things like that but from my experience it is all about patience and approach.

First thing you should know, not everyone with dementia is combative and you will meet some of the sweetest people on this planet. If someone is combative they are anxious or upset and can't express themselves. They are not like this all the time. Unless they are in danger, it's ok to walk away for a few minutes and try again later.  Arguing is not worth the stress for either of you. You will never win that way. If they hit you, NEVER hit back. Walk away. Tell them that is not ok. Remain calm. Do not restrain them. 

As far as getting them to do things they don't want to do, approach it differently. We had a resident who hated showering. We used to tell her white lies and say "your son is going to stop by later so let's wash your hair and make sure you look beautiful." That usually worked and sometimes he really did stop by. You can distract and play music or sing. You can make a shower sound appealing. Some really don't mind it. You just need to get to know the person to see what works for them. 

For calming people down, different tactics work for different people. Sitting one on one and asking about their family or childhood works for some people. It shows you care, makes them comfortable, and gets their mind off why they are upset. Giving others a task like folding clothes or setting tables works for others. Quiet music, a snack, or coloring pages have worked for some of my other residents. As far as the kidnapping goes this is not super common. I've only seen it happen when they first move into a new facility. Reassure them, walk them around the building, talk about their family, etc. It takes time but once they get to know you and other residents they will will start to feel at home.
Carrying for a person living with dementia (PLD)  is no easy feat, however there are strategic ways to make day to day and moment to moment interactios more pleasant. The key is to focus on this sentence"What am I looking to achieve here, in the end, what do I hope to achieve?"

Each interaction with a PLD will have a different answer to that question. If the PLD has not showered or bathed in over a week and is beginning to offend others with an odor, then what you want to achieve I'd some form of cleanliness and odor reduction. For some that may be as easy as coaxing to shower or bath. For others it may require you to be more creative.

Perhaps a "spa" treatment that includes a light foot and leg rub with soap and water, then lotion. Once someone has agreed to that, it may be easier to work up the body to arms, under arms etc. Again it's all in how you present the idea. Words can totally alter a reaction.

When it comes to hitting, accusing etc, again ask yourself the same question "what am I looking to achieve here?" This first and foremost is your safety and the safety of the resident. Once that is achieve d look at the body language as a firm of communication, because it is. As dementia enhances over time OLD rely more on physical communication because verbal communication becomes more difficult to express and understand. Now ask yourself, "why would I do that?" Meaning "why would I strike out at someone?" Probably because they are hurting you first, or making you angry, or they are in your face when you need space.

Now turn that concept around and look at the antecedent to the behavior, what happened just before? Was someone irritating them in some way? Even if it may not be perceived as annoying to you.

Then think of how you would like to be treated. When you are annoyed and someone tells you to calm down, does it help you calm down? Most likely not. Never in the history of the world has anyone ever calmed down by being told to calm down. We as humans look for validation and a cheerleader, someone who will join us in our misery because they understand.

This is where you need to be in agreement, verbally, physically and EMOTIONALLY! Find a way to be in agreement emotionally with what they may be feeling. You can sit nearby (safely) and let the PLD that you have been angry enough to hit too. Tell them you were so upset the only way you could get a person away from you, was to push them away. This should help create a connection and bond where you normalize their experience. Then hopefully they will feel calmer and most importantly, understood. Then you can attempt to intervene now that you have connected. This interaction can include them telling you more about why they were upset (even if they are only able to point their finger at what is bothering them) and you can again agree, "yes, I can see how that would annoy you, let's move away from that and go talk more."

I have written a book called "start with yes" based completely on this concept. It is being adopted by many long term care facility and professional caregivers Nationwide.

Let me know if you need more. I am here to help.
