Reading what you wrote, I thought “infection” before I got to that paragraph.  A UTI seriously messes with a dementia patient, like sends them off the rails. And then add another infection on top of it?  If they can get her rehydrated and use some heavy duty antibiotics to get her infections under control, she may come out of this just fine.  But it depends on how bad that second infection is and what type.  Hopefully, they can get her turned around and back home.  Hang in there!
     As long as she’s under antibiotic treatment and fluids she should be getting better within 24 hours. Pts who are going to pass stop eating and drinking for about 2 weeks, stop responding to antibiotic treatments . Possibly request an end of life discussion with the care team assigned. BeSt of luck
Yeah, my MIL was like that with a UTI.   She's still kicking.  Don't despair.
That's the UTI. It is a very common cause of delirium in dementia patients and often makes it seem like they are much worse very quickly. When there is a change in behavior for anyone elderly, a UTI is always the first consideration.
A UTI literally makes them seem like they've gone 'crazy'. My grandma didn't have the strength to get out of bed with hers and then kept forgetting where she was and stuff. This was back in November and she's happy and healthy (with some memory issues) in her care home now and will be 91 tomorrow.
My dad has been in the hospital twice and both times he seems very bad in the hospital. The first time five years ago, he forgot my mom had passed and kept calling his house and leaving her messages because he was mad she hadn't come to see him. They had six children and he couldn't remember me and my younger brother (we were the last two) and we were sitting there with him. He kept asking us if we fed his horses and thought he lived in a place that we hadn't been born yet. I didn't think he'd be able to be home ever again. But he was and his mind got worse but he was still able to come home and live by himself. Then last day of February same thing happened and he was back in hospital only this time he kept thinking I was my mom and would tell me to stop lying when I would tell him I'm not. He would try to get the nurses to tell me to stop lying too. He was seeing a grey cat outside his third floor window. He also saw children playing outside the window and other hallucinations. All this to say, don't underestimate how bad being in a hospital can affect them and there may be some of that too.
UTIs will definitely make them more confused. My mother in law has had a few and its challenging to deal with her to say the least.  She will get better once the UTI is gone
Check for UTI, it’s been said already. My grandpa had one and he was out of his mind because of it. Make sure that after taking the antibiotics that it’s gone also. They are hard to get rid of in the elderly for some reason.
you didn't say if she is on any pills. that is a biggie.
My mum did similar... Found on the floor with her pants down, muttering gibberish and had pissed on the floor.

Ambulance took her to hospital - where cellulitis wound she's had in leg for 3 months got infected.

Hospital put her on IV antibiotics for a few days - she improved dramatically and started being able to hold some conversations and they sent her home and arranged free home care nurses to come every 2nd day to change the dressing in her wounds.

Hospital said the leg infection made her delirious.  I've heard about UTI's doing the same thing. 

I don't get how an infection in the leg or UTI can screw up their brain??

Any medical type people know how that happens?
I was thinking UTI too. Definitely can cause all those symptoms.
