I had great results in my facility. Both cat and dog ones.
I got my mom the cat one for Christmas; she loves it.
I got something like this for my parents. My dad is the one with dementia and he kept talking about how he wanted a dog. They’ve always been pet owners but even when they were both healthy, they weren’t the most attentive. They thought the dog was cute and my mom shows it off when people come over as if it’s real (could be her way of getting my dad more excited about it). My dad thought it was cute and played with it at first but otherwise doesn’t pay it much attention anymore.
At my facility we’ve had a range of reactions to the robotic companion cats.  Most of them love them, found the purring soothing and loved how they would turn on their backs and “lick” their front paw.

We thought it would be a great idea to suggest to a husband that he get one for his wife because she loves cats and often wished she had one in the facility.  He bought one for her and she told me, “Can you believe he spent 100 dollars on a toy?!”
These are very popular in facilities and they're so awesome! I'd get one, even if it's just to keep just in case in the closet.
I bought MIL a cat that would blink move its head and make noises. She thought it was fascinating and it ended up swaddled on the couch. She would interact with the noises it made but wouldn't have noticed it otherwise probably. Was worth it.
This has been used elsewhere in the world. It keeps elderly busy and let them have something to do during the day.  Some of them even prefer having the companion pet toys then people that they’re aren’t used to.
I bought my mom one of the Fingerling interactive monkey toys- they are a lot less than the companion cat/dog toys and for $12 you might get an idea of whether she would enjoy it.   If she takes to it, you could invest in one of the realistic toy pets.

My mom likes hers but she was more interested in babies than pets so I am looking for one of those weighted baby dolls that feel real or one of those "reborn" dolls that are so realistic.
Thanks for the feedback, that’s good to know. Yeah, I’m a bit worried she’ll play with it for awhile, then lose interest. She has dementia but it’s not *too* bad yet - she’ll definitely know it’s not a real dog and probably won’t see it as a good substitute.
Haha. I can imagine my mom saying that!
yep, that kind is exactly what my mom has. the cat lives on the couch, since that's my moms spot. we dont have it turned on all the time but I see her reach for it and hold it and sometimes she will talk to it. it was absolutely worth it.
That was the issue with my dad, he’s more progressed but still knows the difference so it was just amusing to him. But he loved visiting with us and our pets. I know some places have animal therapy where you can take patients, maybe that would help?
I used to hear her making cat noises talking to it in the other room sometimes. I made a video of her seeing it for the first time, priceless.
