Sometimes the best way to lightly encourage someone to get the help they need is to make it appear as though it's for you. I call this the humble approach. You are basically taking one for the team. You need to find a way to "need" to go to the doctor yourself, and having a helpful extra ear (him) to be by your side would help. 

If you get the right kind of neurologist that is familiar with having to think outside the box re: neuro testing, you can set this up ahead of time. Perhaps you are going for an annual physical and part of your school/work or insurance requirements is to have a mental agility exam preformed.

Questions can be asked of him and you. Maybe you are even looking to him for help, and his ability to assist or struggle through the procedure may be some good insight.

Additionally there are some mental status exams you can provide at home. Again if he is resistant, you will need to work the questions into conversations over the period of an entire day, rather than a quick 10 minute assessment.

I encourage you to look up the mini mental status exam on Google, very standard. Also the Clock drawing test (make sure you read through the concept of this one. It is about you watching him do it, not necessarily the final result). But with us all being sheltered in place right now, introducing a "game" during a family dinner could very easily disguise your motivations and allow him to feel at ease, not shamed or embarrassed.

Connect with me for more of this info. I am a 25 year expert in this field, specific to testing and thinking outside the box re helping families get the diagnosis, treatment and help they need for persons living with dementia.

Best of luck, try the ideas, give me feedback. You are doing a great job and your empathy towards his struggles makes you an excellent advocate for him.
The first thing is to make a Doctor appointment.  His family doctor may do a mini evaluation or not, but he will probably refer him to a neurologist for testing, if he thinks it’s dementia related.

It’s good to get a start on this right away, because what if it is something other than dementia?  What if it’s a TIA (mini stroke)?  Or an infection?  Or a UTI?  Some of those things are fixable.  So let the doctor figure out what’s going on and take it from there.
This is a hard discussion to have. Many of my family reused to believe this was happening to my grandma and so my grandpa didn’t talk about it with them. When it got so bad they couldn’t ignore it they blamed him for not taking care of her. 

Don’t be pushy, but by no means stop bringing up the subject with your mom. I think you should talk to your siblings about this as well and try and form a united front to have a family discussion. 

Also, I thought u/Cathy_Braxton suggestions deserve careful consideration.
I'm not in control of who he sees as I don't live at home anymore...He and my mom live together, but my mom refuses to talk about it with me, and he is much too proud to receive a direct suggestion well. He is a lawyer and still works.
Well, a sneaky way is to call his doctor and tell him what is going on.  Tell the doctor to keep your name out of it. The doctor’s office could then call to make an appointment for your Dad and Mom’s yearly physicals.  He may not be suspicious if they both have appointments.

The doctor can listen to anything you want to tell him, he just can’t give you medical information on your dad without signed consent from him.
