Honestly, if you state that you are physically and emotionally unable to live with her anymore and that your plan is to stop living with her I don't see how the social worker can make any other recommendation.  I presume that where you live it isn't your decision where she lives?
I don’t know which country you are in or your assessment requirements but I am a retired RN and a daughter of a dementia patient so here’s my two cents worth.

Document EVERYTHING.  Daily or even hourly because records cannot be refuted. So, hopefully not, if they refuse full time care this time you have more documentation next time. I truly hope that doesn’t happen but...

Document ‘Activities of daily living’ - showering, toileting, eating, washing, medications and ambulatory are what they are looking for then add in security once those initial needs are looked at. So document each one so for instance showering - are you able to do it with your disability? Is she capable still or is she neglecting to the point of skin integrity being compromised? How long does she shower? (My Mum would go in the bathroom and shower would go on and she would reappear having not even gotten wet)

Toileting - can you help her? Does she manage alone, is she wiping correctly? Is she getting UTI’s Does she smell? Are her bowel motions normal? Yes nurses are nosy! What times does she go and how often daily? Is she getting up in the middle of the night to go?

But the big one is safety. This is paramount for you both. So does she take off? Disappear? Does she walk into traffic (mine did) can she open doors and windows? Does she still try to cook? Leave oven on or element on? Or, again as mine did, use washing powder as salt? My Mum happily did that for goodness knows how long to her husband until I arrived in the country! No wonder he thought she was trying to kill him.

So do you see what I am getting at? You need to prove that your physical disability is making it impossible for you to continue and your psychological welfare is threatened. You are in the most awful situation and I/we totally understand and empathise but you must put yourself first now. You simply cannot look after someone else if you don’t look after number one first. If I can be of any help with more suggestions please just ask.
I don't have advice, I'm not familiar with the assessment you mentioned, but I am sorry you feel so stuck. I hope you are able to be heard during this assessment, and you both get the help you need.
I’m in the exact same boat. We can barely speak to one another because mine is so combative. Her daughters live very close and don’t listen to anything. She attacked me a few mothers ago and I got zero support. They won’t spend time with her using the excuse they don’t want to hear us argue. The only time I can discuss what’s happening is when they’re here, so of course she’s not nice to me and even the slightest tone of voice sends them leaving. I’ve begged for home health care help but they take her to the doctors, but don’t go back with her. Good luck with yours.
