Rural services can be few and far between, but still, the first stop would be an agency for aging.  There might be resources they can hook the wife up with.   How tight is money?  Can you tell us an approximate location?  (at least country)
> They live in the middle of no where with no phone service,    
>  
>they do have a land  line but no internet service.  

Which one is it?  It might be possible to get the house a router and him a fitbit-like watch to get health recordings and track him if he wanders.
Regarding a book, The 36 Hour Day is like a Bible for dementia/Alzheimer's. It's about $5 on Amazon. I can't recommend it enough!
If they can swing it i strongly recommend a lockable perimeter fence. You can have alarms and tracking stuff, but in my experience if all you have are alarms but no meaningful barriers its possible primary caretaker will become jumpy and paranoid about every little thing that vaguely sounds like a maybe alert. This is how it was for my folks anyway.
I forgot to mention, if the gentleman ever served in the US armed forces in any capacity, and received any discharge other than dishonorable, he is entitled to a slew of services including lower-cost (or free) drugs and clinic visits.  In addition, the VA has a program to support the caregiver to take care of the veteran at home.  Their social worker contacts me by phone monthly just to check in with me, and that's very nice (and free).  They also provide free or low-cost respite care, which can be either at home (someone comes in) or at a facility (overnight or day treatment).  If he's a veteran, his wife should definitely look into this!
United states, money is tight older couple in thier late 80's I will have to look up an agency like that for sure. Not sure the exact money situation but I know they don't have a lot of it.
Sorry I should've been more clear, theres no cell phone service but theres a land line. And that's a wonderful Idea i never even thought of that.
Awesome! I was waiting for a good book recommendation ❤
Thanks!
He is veteran that's awesome, that's not even something I thought of! That would help out a lot! Thank you!
Satellite internet would be useful and is available everywhere.  But that old a couple, I kind of doubt how quickly the wife could pick up Internet skills.  

They ideally should move into town for the sake of emergency services, but it can be very hard to convince old homesteaders to do that.  If the husband does wander, that is very much scarier in the country than in a city, especially in winter.

But I still recommend looking for an elder services agency for their area.  Start with Human Services or Alzheimer's associations for the state, and then drill down to the county and physical address.
Each county in each state has their own office, which is good. They will be familiar with the rural life.
A router, a tablet pre-loaded with zoom or other conferencing sw, and then "weekly/monthly dinner night" where everyone gets food delivered and eats together would probably help everyone feel more connected?
Thank you you've been very helpful! I've taken care of my grandmother that had cancer, and I've taken care of alzheimers patients at care facilities but taking care of a family member who has alzheimers is a little different I appreciate it :)
I like that too :) I dont mind to stay and help when I can, I was going to do weekly visits just to see how hes progressing too?  That would help a lot I think the wife is feeling pretty sad, scared and lonely right about now. Thanks!
Usually caregivers feel pretty overwhelmed too.  Weekly "afternoons off" may be just the ticket.
