Definitely don’t try to reason against it. Just reassure them, “oh my goodness; if there’s an intruder, I’ll take care of that right away!”, then, after you do something (like cover the mirrors) let them know you did take action. You don’t have to specify what- just confidently reassure that you DID do something. Delusions are not logical. Insisting on the “truth” is sometimes more hurtful than just entering into their reality. Good luck!!
[deleted]
My mom originally thought it was her mother in the mirror so she would talk to her nicely, now she sometimes gets mad at the person but if they look at anything like a deceased relative maybe You could try saying it’s their deceased relative.
My dad had that.. It was a reaaaal pain when he'd have to use a public restroom when we were out (sometimes you just can't avoid these situations), and he'd get into a fight with his reflection in the fricken restroom. It was just me (female) and mom taking care of him, and he was bigger and stronger than us. If he didn't want to move we couldnt force him. We had to hover by the door to listen if he was getting distracted and eventually one of us had to keep/get him distracted and escort him in and out. I remember telling him to "forget about that guy, hes not worth it!" Like i had to fake being as disgusted with the imaginary opponent as he was to get him be a bigger man and walk away from the fight. 

It did eventually stop though. I think that phase lasted a year or so? And it stopped while he was still mobile. He just stopped noticing mirrors maybe? Dunno. :p
We put paper over all our mirrors, and blinds over the windows that were causing reflection problems.

I don't want to discourage you, but there was no reasoning with or against this/intruder paranoia.  We showed him it was just his reflection, had him do different things to show that the reflection was doing the same, etc.  Nothing works, there is some kind of disassociation with actual self image, or whatever it is..  Sometimes my dad would call it his friend, he even brought some food into the bathroom one time and put it on the  counter for him.  It was spaghetti.

We ended up removing the mirror in one bathroom that he uses and taped paper over the other that we couldn't remove.  It took a little doing but we taped the one mirror with a little "window" in it that we can fold to the side and still use part of the mirror.

Sorry that this is happening to your family.
Magnetic curtain?
Hey hope you get help with this. When my mum sometimes sees reflections she gets frightened and her response is usually dependant on the mood she's in, she does get aggressive sometimes, so we just reassure her as much as possible, cheer her up, make her laugh put on her favorite music or funny Youtube videos because usually the aggression comes from fear. Er, it's always hard because there's not one answer with a problem with dementia it's just trial and error.

I have had some success with the pill Memantine which has made her aggression drop significantly, so maybe you could research that?

Wishing you the best of luck
100% correct.
[removed]
Yeah you can't fight it or reason with it. Treat it all like its real (because its real to them) and you just gotta work within their reality. Alzheimer's turned some of his siblings really sweet and docile but man it just made him angry and paranoid. 

When he fought with his reflection at home we just sorta let him though, eventually giving up on stopping it. The "fights" were just verbal and never lasted long. Plus at least we knew where he was and knew he wasn't doing something like destroying household objects or eating random non food stuff around the house. 

Good luck hope this phases passes soon for you guys! :)
