I’ve never heard that. It may have been the primary viewpoint at some time in the past, but it doesn’t matter if the person thinks a liquid is food or not. If they will consume it safely and it’s healthy and safe for them, then use the spoon. I have coworkers who will go to great lengths just to get a resident to eat something. The person may not even recognize it as a spoon someday. Good luck.
As the previous commenter said, that my have been the view in the past, but not now. It’s an active practise at all the homes I’ve worked at. It preserves the residents dignity, as there’s far less mess going on their face and clothes compared to just letting them sip from the cup. 

TLDR: it’s fine. Keep doing it.
I'm pro spoon. I found the same, especially with dementia patients. I've also been told by a speech pathologist that the spoon method is best for keeping the swallowing muscles functioning nicely, and the sensation of the spoon on the lips or tongue stimulates those swallowing  muscles to prevent fluid pooling. Interesting to hear that side of hunger cues though, i never thought of that.
I’m not sure this is true. 

Seeing a spoon can actually help us eat, since we start visualizing our nutrients. The first step of eating is looking at the food and making the decision to eat it — i hope that makes sense. I think this could be beneficial for patients who may forget to eat or struggle with depression/ suppressed appetite.

Secondly, using a spoon MAY* help reduce aspiration and/or penetration of food/liquid into their lungs. While I can’t confirm this 100% and it is anecdotal, adding the spoon mechanism may increase the amount of time their body is preparing to receive the liquid (especially if it is thickened). Whereas straws can bring liquid in too quickly for someone who has a swallowing disorder. Research needs to be done here and I’d say a speech-language pathologist would need to be consulted for more concrete information...but it is just a thought. 

Good on you for finding what works best for you& the patients you care for. ✨🌞🌻 

that is special.
No never heard that one. Use anything that works to get fluids into them.
Thanks! The resident I'd been assisting when my colleague spoke to me is at risk of weight loss due to poor food intake and actually declined most of their food, but... they're on ensures and other things as well as their normal meals and snacks, and hydration is important too - and they anded up having all of their drink, so i thought that was good enough for one mealtime.
This new colleague comes across as very much "do it right or I'll think that you're useless" and is quite pushy and assertive while I'm the opposite, but I'm hardly new to care at this point. I think our ages may also be playing a part as I'm young enough to be their child. I'll run this drinks-with-a-spoon thing past my team leader next time i see her (she wasn't present on the day).
Thank you so much, this coworker is quite bolshy and assertive and it was such an unusual thing i just nodded and said thank you - I'll run it by my team leader the next time i see her to hear her perspective as well. I was wondering if it might have been a thing in the past which is now not really practised, since it certainly sounds that way.
Thank you 😊 I'm not totally sure, but i think the point my coworker was trying to make was that by assisting my resident with a spoon for their drinks, it would make them think they were eating instead of drinking, so they would then be less likely to eat their food. It's something i hadn't thought of before, but then it's also a problem I've never run into lol. My spoon-assists are pretty good for their intake usually.
I don’t know how old you are, but I’m assuming you’re relatively young, as am I. In my experience it’s often people in care roles like us that have been doing it for a very long time still hold onto some more...outdated methods of care provision and adopt a “my way or the highway” attitude, and will simply not take alternative methods from young people. 

So yes, going to the RNIC or whoever to confirm this is fine. Assuming they agree with you, which they should, I’d recommend you telling them you’ve seen other staff tell you to do the opposite, and that running a training session to inform them of how it should be done would be beneficial, so that not just the staff benefit, but so will the residents :).

Edit: I’ve just realised, when you use a spoon, you’re controlling how much food or fluid the resident is consuming, which is far safer than the ambiguous amount they could consume if it were done another way, so it is far safer when indicated.
Yes, I'm in my late twenties while the other carer is in their 50-60s and they do seem the type to hold onto what they learned when they were first training.

And that is a good point about controlling the portion with the spoon! I'm always terrified of making someone aspirate - it happened to someone else and it was so scary, even though the resident recovered fine. I feel so guilty if i cause even a single tiny cough.
