Quick question, has the depression set in since he was put on the new medication? Or are you wondering if he has depression instead of dementia? Many times depression looks like dementia and then gets diagnosed incorrectly, leading to unnecessary medications.

Yes, meds can certainly conflict and I would look into the common side effects possible with the new medication. Additionally, the awareness of having a form of dementia can be anxiety and depression inducing.

Can you tell me what form of dementia he was diagnosed with? The term dementia is like cancer, it is an umbrella term that just encompasses traits and characteristics. It is not a diagnosis in itself. Different forms of dementia present differently and therefore should be treated differently too. For example if a person has frontal Temporal Dementia but is treated with medications for Alzheimer's type dementia, their symptoms can get worse.

It is imperative that you know what type. Push til you get an answer, you will be his biggest advocate during this time.

I am a subject matter expert on dementia, family caregiving and communication techniques. I am available to direct chat, zoom or talk via phone if you would like more help. I am here to help ( I am just happy to be giving back during this difficult time). Don't hesitate to touch base. Best of luck. You got this!
Dementia can cause depression. Major life changes can do the same. He has been through some very stressful medical issues, and that can make anyone depressed. If you are worried, please call the doctor and speak with them. You can also consult with a pharmacist. You should avoid speculating and/or changing medications. Also, it may take some time for medication to kick in, so it might not even be working yet.
Depression is very common after a cardiovascular event - not simply because of the social impact, but specifically because of the effect of the event on the brain. Pseudo dementia is a phenomenon where a person’s depression looks like dementia; but it is not. Treating the depression helps cognitive symptoms resolve. I highly recommend having a full neuropsychological evaluation with a neuropsychologist, which is very different than the screenings done at a neurologist office. Also, yes- meds can cause depression, in particular, beta-blockers, which are commonly used in cardiac patients. Consulting with a trusted pharmacist can be very helpful because they are well-trained at evaluating the whole picture of all the meds, rather than viewing it from one’s own specific specialty. A strong team trained in dementia care is so important. Do you feel like you have one yet?
Just be aware that post Myocardial Infarction (heart attack) one of the emotional changes seen is depression and even anger. This is analogous as far as I know but I have never gone and researched it.  Colleagues of mine are cardiac nurses and they often mention this - patients go one of two ways. They become morose, depressed and angry, serious anger. Or they go to silly sooky with  very high emotion and separation anxiety.  We nurses have all sorts of observations like this. I am an operating theatre nurse (retired) and we see different things that are specific to theatre.

 So keep this in mind but if you truly believe dementia is an issue I recommend keeping records. (I sound like an old broken record with this so sorry) but medical people love documentation. Document daily even hourly all the quantifiable and observable issues you see. This will help a lot in further diagnostic testing.
I actually went and looked it up and sure enough it is a documented side effect. Post Myocardial Infarction depression is found in approx 40% of patients.
That’s a great point about knowing the type of dementia! It is definitely a point of education that can often be skipped or misunderstood.
Do you know anything about Alzheimer’s/Dementia and Aphantasia, or where I can look for information?
Thank you.
