I think at some point your parents will realize that what they are doing is no longer helping. As mentioned, when your grandma can no longer swallow, it becomes obvious that she can no longer take in nutrition.

As the primary caregiver for a person it becomes second nature to feed them. You feel like you are failing them if you don't. I would just let things transpire...
I dont know that theres any way to make this easier. 

Is she on a feeding tube or something like that? That sounds unusual for hospice but im not an expert. If your folks are just feeding her by putting food in her mouth, there will come a time when she can't chew or swallow any more anyway. Or she might just aspirate the food on accident and get a pneumonia. In either of these cases she wouldn't have long anyway. 

In most cases I think I personally would be supportive of whatever the primary caretaker wanted, if they seemed to be doing a generally as-good-as-can-be-expected job. This is because my guess is the primary caretaker will bear the brunt of the emotional consequence. 

If whatever they were doing was acutely bad for them (caregiver or alz person) id intervene but otherwise id kind of let them do what they wanted. If it was just a "sad prolonging of the inevitable," i might suggest other ideas, but id still probably support whatever they wanted, if they seemed to be thinking clearly. 

Maybe talk to hospice about it. This should be a thing they are used to talking about all the time. 

Good luck.
This is sad, and I'm sorry. Yes, your parents are delaying the inevitable, and that's understandable. I've had two relatives who passed this way, but they both had their recorded their wishes to be allowed do die this way. If you agree, you should gently, respectfully, but firmly let your parents know your opinion on this, then let it go. I hope they will see your feelings and take it into account, and will come to realize what they are doing isn't helping. Hang in there. Things will get better.
The goal of hospice is to reduce suffering.  It's certainly a different orientation to care than most of us are used to.

You are not going to cure or reverse late stage Alzheimer's.  Ultimately the individual can't even swallow.  They have little we would think of as cognitive function.  Either an infection or choking on their own fluids is likely to take them.  

If the person is fighting any food, then very likely it is kinder to withhold feeding rather than to cause distress by forcing it on them.
Its hard to let a loved one go sometimes. Some people are different than others but eventually she will pass or they will figure out how to begin moving on for themselves.

The reality of these sorts of issues is that; if you arent the primary caregiver; or a kid of said person, its none of your buisness what they decide to do with your grandmother.

One day you may have to make the same decision for your parents, but until then your job is to provide support, not criticism.
My mom was in the similar situation.  She was in end stage dementia when she fell and broke her left femur just below the  ball socket. It was painful and we were having to decide what is best for her. Our doctors were recommending hospice palative care.  We all opted for hospice after sorting our emotions....which was the only logical route. She was on pain medication and recommended food/drink for the remaining days. She went peacefully.
Thank you for your reply- I needed to hear these things.
Thank you so much for your reply! I spoke to Hospice and they said that my parents are prolonging the inevitable :/ I am unsure of how to go about things anymore.
Thank you so much for your reply, it’s just really hard to see medical professionals give advice but my parents dont take it. She can barely swallow (she struggles with swallowing bread) and this still give her pills, even though the nurses said not to. They also feed her extremely a lot, and they often force feed it. They do this like 5-6 times a day. That is more often than I eat.  It’s hard to see it happen to someone you love after seeing them deteriorate for so long.
I completely agree!
I realized I should have just made the suggestion and backed off, I was in the wrong for sure. Thank you for your response.
I’m so sorry you had to go through that. My grandma has fell a few times.
There's usually a social worker on a hospice team. Let them know that your parents might need a visit to talk about what's going on. Your parents may be acting on anxiety as the end is coming near. There's also a spiritual guidance team member who may be able to help. If your parents are religious maybe it's time for a last sacrament or prayer for the dying - something to help them process a good bye. Best wishes for you and your family.
Dont take it too harshly, everyone will come to a point where the best thing to do can be the hardest when dealing with family.  A lot of people go through the same thing and the best thing you can do in this situation is make the suggestion and if they dont take the advice; move on and continue to support them to the best of your ability.

 It is not easy to choose to end the life/chose to stop preventive care of a loved one even though it is the most humaine thing to do in some cases.
Best of luck
Thank you very much. The supervisor of the hospice nurses is going to visit, i’m hoping my parents will listen then.
Thank you!!
