Yes, mine can get extremely nasty at times. If you can defuse and deflect without conflict, that is the best advice I can give.
Absolutely, when my mom doesn’t get her way, she can use her can as QUITE the beating stick.
They sure can. I've been hit, kicked, bitten, stomped, rammed, grabbed, bruised though never really injured luckily. Yelled at, screamed at, cursed etc (nurse here).
They definitely can, but it's often preventable.
I had one resident who tried to attack another resident with a brick. From behind. At dinner. Luckily he was very, very slow, and we did have to remove him from the facility after that.
Violence is absolutely a potential outcome. It’s extremely difficult for both the patient and caregiver. 

What you described sounds more like a desire to escape, which sadly is also quite possible. I’d suggest getting alarms on your doors and potentially changing your locks to ones that require a key to get out. 

As my grandma progressed (with LBD) her escape attempts became more frequent and prone to violence and were ultimately the major factor that lead my grandpa to consider a memory care facility for her. 

My deepest sympathies to go out to yourself and your family. There is no easy answer to address a problem like this.
I strongly advise seeking some medical advice for this. Perhaps your dads behaviour is the result of an unmet need (ex sensory issues, hallucinations, pain etc) but if you’re concerned he may be a danger to your mom, there are medical options out there. Try to document what may be triggering your dad as this can often help to identify why he is threatening or violent (I.e. is he feeling disoriented, hungry, in pain, tired??) These can often be superseding these behaviours. If you’re absolutely concerned, you can try getting a bed alarm on Amazon which can indicate if your dad is leaving the bed so you can go intervene, remove any sharp or damaging objects, try to make it difficult to leave the bed with bed rails so it may slow him down (if he is not at high risk for falling...). Perhaps moving your mom to a different room? Often family members can be a trigger due to past traumas or cogntive disassociations. 

In any case, seek medical assistance.
Ever thought the shirt he didnt like he was findong uncomfortable but couldnt find the words or way to tell you due to the dementia?

Maybe hes too hot ect..
My mom and dad sleep in the same room and I am worried he might do something while shes asleep(he's not really been physically violent in daytime yet, just threats). Is there any way to maybe prevent this or something?
>My mom and dad sleep in the same room and I am worried he might do something while shes asleep(he's not really been physically violent in daytime yet, just threats). Is there any way to maybe prevent this or something?
>My mom and dad sleep in the same room and I am worried he might do something while shes asleep(he's not really been physically violent in daytime yet, just threats). Is there any way to maybe prevent this or something? Also since ur a nurse at what stage of the disease do you think its absolutely necessary to admit them into a medical facility permanently.(currently my mother refuses to do so even though it is killing her to put up with his tantrums everyday).
>My mom and dad sleep in the same room and I am worried he might do something while shes asleep(he's not really been physically violent in daytime yet, just threats). Is there any way to maybe prevent this or something?
 My mom and dad sleep in the same room and I am worried he might do something while shes asleep(he's not really been physically violent in daytime yet, just threats). Is there any way to maybe prevent this or something? At what stage of the disease do you think its absolutely necessary to admit them into a medical facility permanently.(currently my mother refuses to do so even though it is killing her to put up with his tantrums everyday).
at what stage was she admitted? onset of any particular behavior led to it?
My mom only gets violent in extreme cases where she feels cornered, like when my brother and SIL tried to put her in a home for 5 days. It’s really hard to prepare for everything because everyday can bring new challenges. If your father isn’t currently violent, I wouldn’t stress yourself over possibilities, I find my mom is best when in a stress-free environment. I’ve had to actually kick my brother out of the house because of his toxic presence and although my mom doesn’t get better, she doesn’t get worse either. That is provided my brothers don’t get involved.
Oh dear, this is very hard to answer. I'm from Europe, so things may be very different for you. 
Is your father regularly seen by a doctor? Or is just your mom and direct family involved in his care?
The thing is 'the right time' is different for everyone. It depends on many factors and is not easily evaluated.

As for your mother, her reaction is very normal and I see it often. I've had a patient that came to us in a very late stage of dementia (unable to communicate, incontinent, hearing and seeing things, could get violent out of fear/confusion) His wife took care of him until she just couldn't anymore. Literally. She had a very hard time accepting it just wasn't doable anymore to no fault of her own. At first the plan was he would stay with us for just 3 weeks so she could have some time to recover herself. After some long debating with several professionals (doctor, social worker etc) she came to realize it was better for him to remain there. It was hard and clearly took a toll on her. 
We had our hands full with him, I can't possible imagine what she must have gone through before she was able to admit a facility was inevitable. 

Good luck with everything, this decease is aweful.
Soon as a person becomes a clear danger to their own safety or others, it is time for a medical intervention. Get a specialist involved, and have your father get evaluated.
Sorry for the delayed response. Going by the seven stage breakdown, she was stage 5 probably when we had to place her in a memory care facility.

The stage breakdown doesn’t really work for her though. She ended up being diagnosed with Lewy body dementia, although it was never officially confirmed because my family refused to allow an autopsy. Basically she was completely fine, then had a surgery; and afterwards had extremely vivid hallucinations that continued to increase. Her cognitive decline did not happen at the same rate. But she lost her vision at the same time, so she got to a point where her hallucinations were basically all she could see and started to become her reality. 

She got to a point where if she saw a hallucination but we told her it didn’t happen she would think we were the liars. The final straw was 4 escape attempts within 2 days. Her being at home and around us was just exaggerating all her symptoms basically.

Neither my grandpa or I had slept in 2 days and we just had to acknowledge that as much as we cared about her, we could care for her properly anymore.
How can one go about this? My father is slowly but surely starting to become more physically aggressive with my mother and I randomly during his bad emotional outbursts. I’ve been in close contact with his neurologist for about 2 months now and they prescribed an antipsychotic and antidepressant for him but over time we’ve been increasing the dosage on the antipsychotic for his behavior. What should be the steps taken if they clearly are a danger? What could we expect once these steps are taken?
