I'm sorry that your parents have dumped this on you...

I would consider checking in with your grandma's doctor. A reluctance to eat can be a symptom of dementia, but there could be other underlying problems that your grandma might have trouble expressing... She could have a sore in her mouth, or a bad tooth, making eating unpleasant. She could be having digestive troubles, or an allergic reaction, making her feel sick every time she eats... 

All those things discounted, and if she doesn't have any other health problems like diabetes, my mum's doctor advised me that at the end of the day a calorie is a calorie. If your grandma is not into having meals, see if she'll drink a meal replacement shake like ensure. If you discover that she loves chicken wings, chicken wings for supper every day is totally fine. I used to crush and stir a multivitamin into chocolate pudding for my mum and she'd gobble it up. On days that my mum just didn't want to eat at all, I'd put a butter tart in front of her and she'd eat it up happily. A calorie is a calorie. I can also tell you that my mum hated to do things alone. However, if I made a big fuss over meal times and how we'd all sit down together to eat, she'd be happier to do so. If I ate with gusto and didn't try to coax her into eating, she'd be more likely to take my lead.
Going with the calorie is a calorie is a calorie ... make milkshakes with Ensure, plus whatever her favorite flavors are.  You can even sneak some protein powder in, or peanut butter powder (if you’re worried about a lack of protein).  If she’s a coffee nut, like me, mix some espresso powder in a bit of milk and make a coffee milkshake.
I find not asking them IF they want something but rather either handing them something to eat OR asking them if they want x OR y.  

Also, sugar free jello or pudding could help-- or even if you said it's sugar free. but more water and gelatin from the jello, and the puddings are pretty good too. 

I also find timing things out-- I'll hand them food every 90 minutes, sometimes every two hours. and switch between something small and sweet, and a small plate or bowl of something whether it's soup with crackers, or a sandwich. 

definitely cook with butter to pack those calories in. even adding a couple tablespoons of heavy cream to soup can make it more delicious. And ritz crackers helps out. You just have to figure out ways to increase and diversify-- instead of just toast, make it toast with cream cheese. instead of a cheese sandwich, slip an extra piece of cheese in there, maybe some lunch meat and fry it in butter to make it a melt. 

but don't make food an argument. you want to be like a ninja. if they refuse the food ask if they can take a bite or just set it to their side and maybe they'll pick it up later. but it works best to keep handing them food if they don't think they're going to be browbeaten into eating. 


however this is from the perspective of someone's parent who definitely has disordered eating, a lot of pain and pill use to manage health conditions, and had stomach surgery so their stomach is a lot smaller.
Can you get to drink coffee of tea? I find if I can get them to drink a beverage, they will eat a cookie.
I’m sorry to hear about you having to care for your grandma because your parents are unable to. You sound like an awesome grandchild to be trying to help her!!

I work full time on a geriatric team so I have some experience in this. 

I think a lot of the non-pharmacological strategies already mentioned sound great! I am however concerned about your grandmas hallucinations as often with dementia, depending on her staging and severity, another symptom can be suspicious behaviour where she may feel her food is being poisoned. Often if hallucinations are distressing, usually you don’t need to medically intervene at all. However it sounds like these hallucinations are bothering your grandma and may impact her negatively. I strongly advise speaking to her doctor or geriatric specialist to see if there are any medications that may be helpful. 

Hope this helps and keep up the amazing and often undervalued job of being a caregiver!
Wow, This is what I am also going through. I just posted something, then came across your post. Thank you! Yes this is what I’m going through and I’m starting to lose my patience as I go through this cycle ALL DAY. My grams doesn’t get violent physically, just emotionally haha and is so dramatic ! Classic guilt and pity party style. She says I’m worse than her mother (who will be home soon). She’s 92.

Edit: I portion her plates to be tiny. Like for a very small child. And she is much happier to eat this way. If she wants more she refills her plate. But there is no way to get her to eat a normal portion size of food.  If she she sees it, it’s game over. Because of the same reasons you mentioned above: going to gain weight etc. I think it has to do with etiquette from when she was much younger.

Edit 2: the hallucinations are a coping mechanism for her ever changing reality. The stories spiral off and create stories of stories,  but I try not to let it bother me and redirect(!) her whenever it’s bothering her. Which has its drawbacks- it’s like 50 First Dates. Sometimes I ‘roll the tape’ for what reality is. Other times it’s not worth stressing her out. I also make cookies and cakes with protein and healthy diet  supplements in them to be very sneaky. She basically lives off milk and bananas and icecream ! 
You got this! Thanks again for posting it’s uncannily similar to my life.
