Is  he on anti psychotic medication? That was a huge help for my father who was paranoid and aggressive
It's called psychogeriatric care
I’m very sorry for your friends for having to go through this. My grandma went through similar circumstances, though while she wished for an end, wasn’t actively suicidal. 

Hospice could definitely be an option and I would highly suggest contacting them about the situation and making inquiries. If nothing else, they might be able to suggest additional resource options.

Doctors that specialize in dementia and hospitals might also be able to provide more suggestions specific to your area, though they will likely want to confirm his diagnosis for themselves. 

Lastly, I’m not sure of your location, but in the US there is the Department of Health and Human Services, which also operates on a state and county level for a number of programs, including mental health. If you are in the US I would suggest contacting them as well. If there is not a specific applicable program they operate locally, they might be able to suggest private facilities that can help. If you’re outside the US, many countries have equivalent departments (under different names) and they might be able to offer some support.
You could have them check out a local Geriatric Psych unit, I’m based in New Hampshire and there’s one at my local hospital, my dad was there for 2-3 weeks while they helped regulate his meds, some patients are there permanently, it just depends on whether or not their insurance approves the need to be there.
Thanks MikeNinefingers, really appreciate you taking time to share some options. We're based in Connecticut but are open to options anywhere in the world at this point. The doctors sadly haven't been very helpful with long-term solutions. 

I really appreciate the advice regarding hospice care and the Department of Health. I'll contact them today.
Absolutely, glad to be of any help I can. If you’re friends aren’t on Reddit, I would strongly recommend this sub to them at least. Even if they don’t want to discuss a specific problem, sometimes caregivers just need to vent and know they aren’t alone. 

If they don’t want to got the internet route, I’d strongly suggest looking into support group meetings in their area as well. They have to care for their father, but they have to care for themselves as well. 

Best wishes and internet hugs for your friends. Feel free to pm me or share my username and let them as well.
