I don't know if this will help you, but when my mum started confusing words and ideas to the point that I didn't understand, I'd try to ask *really* general questions that didn't take up the content of what she was saying. So, like, if she seemed really excited about what she was saying, I'd say, "you seem really happy about that - is it a good thing?" Or, if she seemed grumpy, "I can tell that you're upset about it. Is there anything I can do to help?" Or, if I really didn't know at all how she was feeling, "is that a good thing?" If she confirmed it was a good thing, "well that's great!" 

I think a big lightbulb moment for me was realizing that her feelings remained intact longer than her reason. Validating her feelings helped her to feel heard and safe, which kept our relationship intact longer.
In my experience, there is no correcting. Gave up on that a while ago. Can you say something like “that’s a good question, I’m not sure.” Anything that draws attention away from her not making sense. If it doesn’t compromise their safety, I just go with it. I generally have no good outcomes from correcting anything. It just causes frustration and anxiety. Live on Jupiter with her the best you can. If she asks you for something and you don’t understand, maybe hand her a glass of water or something and if she says “that’s not what I want” say “oh, I must have misheard you.”  By then she may have forgotten and you can redirect. 
In my experience a lot of questions just need acknowledgement, not necessarily a specific answer. But, your mom may be different.
Can you split them into different questions? So lets say she combines it. Can you take part of the question and see if she can clarify what she meant? If she can, answer that question. You may have to go even vaguer and just mention the general theme and see if she can clarify herself more. 

For us, I think my grandmother's verbal skills made her seem more confused than she was. Maybe I'm in denial (even a year post her passing) but sometimes I think back to some of the random stuff she said and I think it was just misplaced in context (ie she was remembering a topic from yesterday) than just not being cognitive of anything. 


Unfortunately, it's going to be hard, especially when the person may not be able to mentally process the diagnosis due to the diagnosis or just not wanting to accept it. Give her room to talk. Even if she's going off course and see if you can pick up a theme. Otherwise, like people said, if you can't figure it out, drop it and just say "Well, we'll figure it out later. How about we (start talking about something else)." When my grandmother was super persistent, we either had to admit we didn't know what she was talking about or we'd finally get it after a while of back and forth.
[deleted]
"what do you think?" "What would you do?" "I'm not sure, but I can look into it and get back to you." YMMV.
