It's been tough,  and I live closer to my mom.   One thing that I think helped is getting another one or two senior friends or neighbors who have also been good about isolating to go sit on the patio and visit.  When I go,  I bring food and we also sit outside and eat. 

We tried the zoom meetings which sometimes work,  but sometimes she can't figure out how to connect.

I remind her a lot to take vitamin D, which seems to help with her sleeping at night,  and subsequently helps with memory issues.
My parents (mid-seventies) are in relatively good health, but keeping them safe from the virus has of course been my primary concern. My mother has memory issues as well and tends to sit in her recliner all day long. My dad is really active around the house. Before the pandemic he would take her to get a coffee or go out to dinner, or go on scenic drives just to get her out of the house and get her to move around. They were hoping to move into a tiered-strategy assisted living facility by the end of the year. That is now not happening. 

I live about two hours from them, and my brother lives about halfway between us. We both have fairly small social circles and have been able to stay isolated really well. At first he would run errands for my dad (trips to Home Depot, take the car in for service, etc.) and I called mostly daily to chat with my mom. 

Thankfully, they’ve done fine throughout the last few months. My mom hasn’t changed much, but she’s more sedentary than ever, and that will eventually bring a host of issues. We can’t convince her to exercise and my dad won’t force her. My dad has been more liberal with going out lately - they have done Starbucks drive-thrus and maybe even gone inside to sit. He prefers to grocery shop in the store - they keep messing up his pickup orders, he says. He postponed their housecleaning service for awhile but they’ve started back up. I’m not happy about it but he knows the risks he’s taking. As long as he wears his masks and takes all the precautions he can, it’s all I can ask. 

With my mom’s memory issues, we’re lucky my dad is so fit. He’s done a great job managing her. She forgets that they are in isolation, and has struggled with the change to her routine. I stayed away from them for about a month, and then we have started having family visits again - we stay seated apart and try not to hug (poor mom). It’s worked for us so far, but I go back to work in two weeks, so I will make a last visit the weekend before and then probably not again for many weeks until things are clearly stable. 

The problem with cognitive issues is that it’s hard to learn new things or to remember the changes. If you can get your mother to keep up an exercise routine, however basic, or to talk to any friends over video chat or the phone, or to do crossword puzzles, jigsaw puzzles, etc to keep her brain flexing, that’s ideal. But i know exactly how hard it is to keep up that pressure remotely. 

It’s very frustrating, I know. I think you have to think about the lines of safety - is she likely to burn a pot on the stove, or forget to eat? Or are her issues effectively benign - if she thinks you are coming over, that isn’t really a danger per se. 

Best wishes.
I think my mom (late 80's) is getting worse in isolation, but, she's a different story..

Recently learned that delusions are one sign of Parkinson's disease. I know it can be so very hard to help from afar.. but staying on top of her nutrition/eating? Any chance of doctor appt?  Perhaps breach the subject of health by talking about a friend's health and see if she shares about herself. Take care, you sound very kind and rightfully concerned.
My mom's in assisted living.  I *was* visiting her 2-3 times a week, 4-5 hours a visit.  Now?  She's getting depressed.  Not even getting dressed some days, she's said.  

And...I have to arrange the sale of her house for her future care (I overseen and managed her finances 4 years now, and got her out of debt).  She hates this.  I hate this.  But I need to make sure I have enough money available for her care for the rest of her life.  It is *expensive*.  

When they're off lockdown, I will likely be there nearly everyday for at least 2-3 hours for a few weeks if not months.
By some divine miracle, my neice happened to be visiting my pops for a month or so when Covid hit. She's still there taking care of things. 

I don't even know what I would have done if she hadn't been. He won't let people help him unless they're directly related to him and his communication skills are horrible. I sent him three messages regarding questions I had and his reply back, after several days, was "yes, no, yes". 

I've still sent them supplies, like masks, activities, support hose, etc., via Amazon. 

It seems women are more accepting of help. Can you arrange for a neighbor or paid helper to stop by and check on her once a day? They can make a meal and keep her company a bit, maybe tidy up, lift heavy objects, that sort of thing. Plus, it would be another set of eyes for you to assess the dementia situation and maybe take her to the doctor.
I have seen ads for this - a tablet for seniors - GrandPad. Looks easy to use and to set up. 

 [https://www.grandpad.net/](https://www.grandpad.net/)
It has been tough.

My mom (92) moved to assisted living last September. She was finally settling in, seemed happy and was making friends, when the lockdown started in mid-March. Since then, families are not able to visit in person or take their loved ones out (shopping, appointments, lunch etc.) We have zoom meetings instead and residents don't understand why their families can't visit.

The lockdown has caused a lot of stress and anxiety, and the residents are acting up because of it. My mom already had mild dementia, and it definitely seems to have gotten worse over the past 3 months. I suspect it's the natural progression of the dementia, but the stress of the lockdown has definitely made things worse.

The facility is now allowing "through the window" visits (in person, 10 feet apart with mask) so I'm hoping that if I can see her in person, that might help give her some reassurance.

Best wishes.
I'm so sorry you are going through this. Quarantine is causing a huge problem for my mom (71). I've been here for two months helping her, but it's taken a huge toll on me and my relationship. I was originally supposed to leave last week for a break, then come back, but now my mom is having mysterious symptoms including disorientation and fatigue. She believes she has a moderate form of Covid (she tested negative, but the test has a 25% false negative rate) and that her life will be at risk if I leave. She's very depressed and scared and I don't know how I can enjoy my mental health "vacation" with my mom constantly depressed and asking when I'll come back. 

Because she's in complete isolation, no one else can come in the house to help her. My partner can't visit us here because he hasn't been quarantining. It's causing a huge problem and I'm caught in the middle. My brother lives about 9 hours away, but he claims he can't take time off work to come help (and in any case he's not very helpful or supportive). 

Have you thought of moving your mom into a more supported living situation? I just don't know how that would work with employees going in and out every day and possibly spreading infection.
Thank you! That vitamin D tip is very helpful and I will try to get her some. 

She lives in a (mostly) seniors apartment building and I wish she was more social but she is just not. She is so funny and likable but she has some self-confidence issues. Always has. 

I got her an Echo Show (Alexa) recently and we haven't yet gotten it connected to the internet. I'm waiting on another family member to do this for her, but it should allow for more face to face chats and hopefully, this will be a comfort. It also has a 'drop-in' feature that will allow me to drop into her living room without her answering. I'm hoping this will be helpful and I do hope that she gets used to the voice commands and uses them but I'm not hopeful. Still, the calling should make things a bit easier. 

Thanks again for sharing! I'm glad you're able to visit your mom – even outside! That's so nice! ❤️
Thank you for sharing. I'm so thankful your mom has your dad. He's a saint, it seems. God love them both. 

Your mom sounds so much like mine. My mom sits in her recliner and watches CNN day in, and day out. 

I think she's relatively safe but we're keeping a watchful eye. I'm listening and my aunt who sees her most is keeping a close eye on things there. 

I think we've deduced that her talking to me on the phone causes her to think I'm actually there. Pretty benign but worrisome and kind of heartbreaking too. 

She called me from the grocery store one evening a few weeks ago wanting to know if I wanted a bag of flour (which I'd been looking for). I had to remind her that I'm 4 hours away. And she responded, "I know. I thought that maybe you'd want it for the weekend." I said, "Mom, the borders are closed." She just let out a big laugh saying she forgot. That wasn't unpleasant. I was happy she took it lightly. I'm afraid she'll be cognizant some day of these issues and be embarrassed. I'd like to reduce as much pain, embarrassment and worry as I can. 

Thanks for sharing about your folks. I wish them and your family the best. Cheers.
Yeah, she doesn't eat well, if at all sometimes but I make sure to get food delivered to her and I'm looking into regular delivery of meals on wheels, etc. 

She's had some tests and waiting to do more. Nothing ever seems to move fast. She has given approval for me to be a health care proxy and receive details about her health care from her doctor, which is very helpful. It's a step forward, anyway. 

Best wishes to you and your mom in all of this.
Thanks for your response. Yeah, I had to get my mom set up for online banking in the beginning so I could move money around for her. Like you, we both hated this! She's comfortable financially but the way she manages it all makes no sense. We live in Canada and she is in a province with no cases. Her lockdown is over and she can pretty much freely move around now (thought she doesn't), and I was ready to relinquish the responsibility of her finances and now she admits she can't do it. Asked if I could continue. Rumour is that in our little group of provinces (the Maritimes) that there may be a bubble open in July. I've preemptively booked a trip so I can go home and be added to her accounts so i can do more on her behalf, such as pay for assisted living, etc. when the need arises. 

I'm not sure what other business I can take care of at this time but if she at some point loses more of her facilities, I want to be able to take good care of her. 

Best wishes to you and your mom. I hope you can hug each other sooner than later. ♥️
Thank goodness for your niece! That IS a miracle. I'm glad you're able to help where you can too. I shutter to think where we'd all be if this was to hit us 20 years ago when we were even just barely connected online. 

I'm the same. Though I'm far away, I'm still able to arrange a lot on my end, via the internet. 

And, if I knew her neighbors, I might try to arrange that but I don't and, even though she's a delightful and funny person, she has some self-confidence issues and is a bit anti-social as a result. My aim, however, is to find some drop-in care for her. Someone to come a few hours a week and help her with a few things. I'd like to keep her out of long-term care as long as possible. 

Thanks for sharing. Best wishes to you, your Dad, and your niece.
I WISH I could hire a paid helper for my mom. With social distancing and quarantine, how can older adults have in-home care?
That's amazing! Thank you. 

I did get her an Amazon Echo Show. We're trying to get it connected to wifi for her but the grandpa's is another great option.
Oh my goodness. I feel for you and your mom. Mine just lives in an apartment building but stayed completely isolated for the two months. Some family members were able to drop things off occasionally (at a distance), which was good.

I knew in the beginning of all this that nothing good would come of it. The risk of keeping my mom indoors would cause her to decline but the idea of losing her to COVID was a far worse option.

I hope you can see and hug your mom real soon. ♥️
Try the 5000 IU vitamin D.  Especially for seniors, and those who don't get outside much.   I take it,  and I even notice I sleep better. 

My mom also has some confidence issues,  which is why I approached the neighbors on my own,  and dropped some hints!  If they're on Facebook,  you could try some subtle hints about visiting.
Thank you!  Sadly, I think we’ll be in the same room when she needs to sign away the sale of her house.  Yeah, that sucks, too.  All the best to you and your mom.  It’s a big responsibility; messing up my own stuff is one thing--messing up hers?  Nope.  

And I have Power of Attorney; consider that.  I am not listed on any account as “co-owner” or anything.  

Advice?  Create a spreadsheet of her finances and an email if she doesn’t have one.  My Excel spreadsheet for Mom has “sub-tables” to divide up the info visually (bold borders around to separate and such; I’m a visual person):   
- bank accounts (including phone number, account numbers, login *with* security answers)  
- creditors/utilities (including phone number, account numbers, login *with* security answers, closing dates, due dates, date/amount last paid, balance)   
- healthcare info (I assume you still need some ID number in Canada, phone, login, etc etc)   
- identification (here, Social Security number, CA ID--I scanned that in so I have a visual)  
- funeral info (funeral home, cemetery, and Mom has a funeral fund--again, accounts, addresses, phone, etc)  
- tax info--*what* papers are required and *where* they come from  
- name/phone/address of financial advisor and CPA for taxes

You’ll have to plan finances easily a year in advance, just to know where you are.  I have just a table going vertically, “current balance” + "month’s income” - “month’s payments” = the next month’s “current balance” and so on.  It lets me know when I have to move money to her checking.  This is *really* general, since I’m only needing an *idea* of what’s what, not down to the penny.
>how can older adults have in-home care?

By hiring them from a reputable agency that ensures their providers understand proper masking and handwashing techniques. You can request the provider test their temperature just before entering the house and you can ask them to stay six feet away from your mom, whatever you and she are comfortable with.
Thanks for sharing! These are truly unprecedented times. I live in the San Francisco area, which locked down very early for COVID and we are just barely starting to re-open in phases. I appreciate the cautious approach that our public health officials have taken. Mom's assisted living facility has been diligent about following public health orders and I am very grateful that everyone is healthy, but understandably a bit stir-crazy. Mom is definitely more anxious. She has been hiding things (purse, room key, hearing aid etc.) because she worries that "someone will take them" and then she forgets where she hid them. Inevitably, things always turn in up in her room and she insists that "someone broke in and put them there."

My mother-in-law lives in an "independent" senior apartment building, which provides meals, transportation, and housekeeping. Normally residents can come and go as they please. However, they've all been shut in during the lockdown as well. We meet her in the lobby to drop stuff off, but that's it - we are not allowed to go into the building. So she has been pretty isolated as well.

\*Sigh\* hang in there. You are a good daughter and your mom is fortunate to have you. :)
Amazing. Thank you so much for these tips! This is very very helpful. It's so difficult to know how to go about this stuff. I tried to afford her her independce in every respect for so long but should really try to get control of certain factors  before she further declines, before it's too late. 

Again, thank you so much. Best to you and yours on this difficult journey.
You’re welcome.  And good luck to you.  

I agree, you DO have to get this set up while they still have capacity.  There will be times when you’ll need to call to straighten out a problem--you need to be in that system as Power of Attorney or “authorized party” or something.  There have been times I’ve called my mom (made sure she had her address written down in front of her) and then conferenced-called the other party--because they need to have *her* give the okay.  

For the trash company, I had to fax them a copy of the Power of Attorney!  Sounds silly, but I *think* it’s because bills from them are used to prove legal residence and such.  Which makes sense.  They don’t know ME, they know HER.  

A warning, though...as you take this over and she’s not looking at the calendar much to pay bills, time starts to slip by for them.  Like every day is summer vacation, they lose track of days.  I call mom daily, multiple time, and usually say, “Hi Mom.  Today is Sunday, June 7, 2020.”  Just so she’s heard it.  No newspaper and she doesn’t always watch the news.  She has a BIG calendar, but.....
Oh wow, yeah. I've had to do this recently, as well: state the date and day. What I know is happening and such. I'll have to make this a daily habit when I call. 

Yeah, I've had to conference call with her in the past and that will likely become a regular occurrence, too. 

I'll have to find out the name of her lawyer so I can see about becoming her power of attorney when I potentially visit next month.

Jeez. There's no handbook for this kind of thing but thank goodness for Reddit!
I know!!!  I’m very happy with this subreddit, it’s been very helpful sometimes.  And just reading, I know it’s not just me.  

For Power of Attorney, I don’t know how it works in Canada, but there might be some free forms online.  And you likely want full PoA *now* because you don’t know how much capacity they’ll have and when it reduces.  As with anything, do a bit of research, for info alone if not for actual answers.  

My mom keeps asking when I’ll come see her and I have to keep reminding her about the lockdown.  Her memory used to be *sooooo* sharp, but she’s always had a “I don’t want to think about it so I won’t even remember it” streak.  It’s in the family on Mom’s side.  I take after Dad, we just never remembered to start with, LOL.
