My mother is bed ridden, suffering from dementia, and is now largely non communicative.  The only tip I have for you, from experience, is to remember that you love him.  You aren't wrong for not always wanting to be around him, and you need space if you're going to help him.  Do your best when you're with him, and try to make the most of your time away from him.  In essence, callous as it may come across, grin and bear it while you're with him because it's not his fault.  Do it because you love him.
If these were normal times, I would recommend you join an Alzheimer's Support Group; a real one not an online thing.  I am in one.  These are topics that are often discussed.

Alzheimer's is part off the dying process and this behavior is an indicator of cognitive decline.  Sorry.  Each of you may be expecting too much of each other.

I recommend this book if you have time: "Coping With Your Difficult Older Parent" by Lebow.  Works on Grandparents too.    Where are his kids/your parents by the way?  Asking for a friend.
Watch Teepa Snow’s educational videos on how to manage a lot of the alzheimers care and handle various situations.
Try to get as much outside help as you can. Talk to people if you are able. Do not bottle it up. It will kill you slowly like a poison. Take it from the poisoned, let it out. 

Disclaimer: The following advice may not be healthy or well advised, it is just an honest testimonial.

When I'm dealing with anger, resentment, or annoyance that I cannot control I usually smoke some weed. Reading Marcus Aurelius's Meditations helps too, but I feel like the weed is doing the heavy lifting.
This isn't an adaptive coping mechanism but I've noticed I drink more when I'm caregiving.  It's like I have to allow myself some sort of reward after a day of caregiving.  One time, as soon as I got to my family member's house I opened the door to the smell of shit.  My family member had roofied herself and slept through her dog needing to go outside to pooh.  It was loose stool and the dog chose to shit all over the carpet and not the linoleum.  Despite this, I was calm and it was no big deal.  I just gloved up and cleaned the carpet.  The reason I could do this without having a total meltdown is because I knew I had some wine chilling in the fridge.  Just looking forward to it was enough to make me not flip out about the mess.  Also, I journal and it helps.  My local library is collecting journals created during the pandemic for a future exhibit so I'm keeping one.  I sometimes vent about caregiving stuff in it and feel so much better afterwards.
I totally get it, sometimes just the sight if my grandmother with dementia gets me annoyed, I try to just return to my room,have some alone time and come back downstairs after cooking off, but yeah I completely 1000% get. Being a young caregiver is tough
Thank you! 💕
Thank you!
Thank you
Thank you. Yeah, I try and go outside to run when it’s not too hot.
Lol. I actually had a few drinks yesterday and it definitely made it more manageable. Thanks!
Try to remember that you are not dealing with "Grandpa".  You are dealing with his disease and its the disease that is annoying.  Just one tip that I learned in support.
