Yes, my god-father grew up in Lebanon and learned English as a second language. He has always spoken Lebanese Arabic. When his Alzheimer’s got progressively worse, he reverted back to speaking Arabic. Granted, most of it was also gibberish when it got to a certain point. But yes, he ultimately forgot English.
My grandma only knew one language, but over time, she forgot most of her life, including the married surname she carried for 55 years. 

Anti-anxiety meds were a godsend for my grandma. They made her life 100 times better. It cut down the paranoid freakouts to occasional instead of multiple times daily.
Same with my grandmother from Spain. She always spoke “Spanglish” but we always spoke English to her. I’m the only other person in our family completely fluent in Spanish (I have a degree and studied in Madrid), so at the end of her life, when she was struggling to swallow, I would have to tell her to drink and swallow in Spanish.
My mother is not declining in her English, but does speak the launguage she used growing up. Her family spoke Pennsylvania Dutch/ German, as her father was Amish and spoke very little English. When I was a kid she would call me pet names and sweet talk me in that language but didn’t really use it in ever day life, and stopped altogether eventually. So I’m really surprised to hear her using it again. This makes me wonder if her English will start declining soon as well.
Super common
Yep. This is happening with my dad. Spanish is his first language and he's losing his English quite a bit. He doesn't usually realize that he speaks Spanish to English-speaking people. 

And yes, talk to her doctor about anxiety meds. SSRIs helped a lot with my father, he was very depressed and anxious. It's not a 100% cure, but it does help. There are also drugs that can slow down the progression of the dementia too.
Anxiety meds really helped my hubby!

As the disease progresses, the patient looses the most recent memories first. It would make sense for them to lose their 2nd language first.

Basically, as time goes on they lose everything "recent" including hygiene, motor skills, etc. The long term memories are the memories they remember the longest. ❤️
You can talk to her doctor, you can tell him anything you like.  You can ask for new medicine too.  But her doctor can’t tell you anything about her medical records without her permission.  So you can call and explain her anxiety.  He may call in a prescription or he may want to see her first.
It's so interesting that language also starts slipping. I'm really sorry about your god-father too. How long did it take for his english to start fading?
I'm so sorry about your grandma :( 

Thank you for sharing that info, I believe my mom's anxiety gets to be too much and she becomes confused and disoriented. Unfortunately I can't speak with her doctor and tell him anxiety meds will work a lot.
I'm very sorry about your grandma, but thats so great you became fluent in spanish so you could keep communicating with her. I went away to my home country in South America for 8 years and became fluent in spanish too. I'm so thankful I learned it because now I can speak with my mom without any issues.
I'm very sorry about your mom :( Hopefully not everyone that learned a second language will start to lose it. I haven't heard about this anywhere else, I wonder what the scientific explanation is for this.
Thank you for all the info! I wonder if my mom would also benefit from SSRI’s. Hopefully I can bring all this to the attention of her doctor.
This makes me feel better, that long term memories will stick around. I’ve been putting together pictures of all of our family so she can always remember. 

I think also her anxiety is making her symptoms way worse. Hopefully the doctor will prescribe something for her. I’m so happy the meds helped your husband! ♥️
That’s a great idea. My mom doesn’t want me to speak with her doctor, but this is important. Thank you for this info.
