This is a common probleem, and slowing her down by dividing up the food in several rounds is the way to go. 

She has a disease, you're not treating her like a child. You are treating her to the best of her capabilities, and yes that will feel odd.
Try some Ensure high protein, high calorie. I tell my wife it's a milkshake.
Is she better about swallowing liquids? I’ve seen other posts recommend soups, but you could also try something like, “the doctor told us you need to take a sip after every bite because we need to increase your fluid intake.” My MIL was always more cooperative if you could frame it as doctors orders.
Could you maybe try lots of soft foods? Things like soups and yogurts and shakes? If she gets in the “habit” of swallowing maybe you could slowly reintroduce heartier foods and see how it goes?
Years ago I used a meat grinder to make my own baby food. Do they still have such a thing? I would hate to just put her whole meal in a blender...it sounds like she still enjoys the different textures. Or yes, maybe put just a few bites on her plate until she swallows?
My mum had difficulty eating. I put on Youtube videos that involve people talking to the camera and eating. My mum likes watching Mark Weins' food channel. When she's watching I give her her food and she always eats. Might work. Good luck
It is odd, but I suppose I would rather do that every meal than spend every meal telling her to slow down and swallow and not take another bite yet. That always ends up makes her feel bad. Thank you for the encouragement.
She does like that! But she still wants solid food all the time. A lot of her worries and negative behaviors are centered around meals and cooking.
That's a really good idea! She doesn't like seeing the doctor but if she know the doctor said to do something she is more apt to listen. Thank you!
That a good idea! It may be a little problematic however because she LOVES meat. Lol. Like, she instantly notices if a meal is vegetarian, even soup! But we may try that. thank you!
Yeah that might be a good idea! Smushing each item up a little better. I doubt she'd go for a whole meal smoothie lol
she also likes Kyde and Eric's youtube videos
She may show child like behaviour, but unlike children she is unlearning things she did before. You can't expect to train her, so it's better to work around her. Eg spreading the meal out instead of telling her what she should do.
This too will change. Have you tried CBDs? Seems to help calm my wife.
We watch food channel all the time! She loves it. Especially if they're making desserts. I wonder if that's a common theme with people with Alz.
That makes a lot of sense to think about it like that
Not yet but my family has talked about it. There are only certain times that she gets very anxious right now and we can usually redirect her attention. That or she asks for a glass of wine. We imagined we'd start using CBD as the disease progresses but we may try a little before meals. Thank you for the suggestion!
