He probably needs some meds, talk to a geriatrician.
I don't know if I have anything specific to contribute here, but maybe it'd help to try to closely recreate his sleeping routines from his healthier days. His brain will recognize the routine long after he consciously will, and it'll be comforting and familiar and help signal what step comes next. Setting up his bedtime in the most familiar ways possible would at least set you up for success, if you're not doing that stuff already.

I don't know how to solve the problem itself, but there might be pieces of the bedtime routine you could pull from to help signal him in the middle of the night that he needs to sleep. Just remember that you won't get anywhere by reasoning with him. You'll have to find ways to work within what he's perceiving.
If he's not hurting himself or keeping you from sleeping (i.e. screaming, yelling), I think you are doing ok.  Logic is one of the first things that goes when a family member has some sort of dementia so just try to make him comfortable, let him know it's time to sleep and see if he'll comply.
It’s just a matter of keeping them safe and getting some sleep yourself. I got lucky that when my dad was mobile he was to afraid of the dark to run out the door so
He might pace but he never left the house. Also his dog also tells on him when he touches door knobs.
It's pretty common for people with dementia to see things that aren't there; hear things that aren't there. When the brain has disrupted sensory input, it tries to create things to fill in the blanks.

I am an Optometrist (my wife has dementia and my mother died with dementia). The brain does the same thing with people who have significant vision loss from glaucoma or macular degeneration. It tries to "fill in the blanks." It's not dementia specific, although people with dementia have more trouble differentiating reality from the hallucinations.

No specific advice on how to deal with this. Perhaps adding more sensory input (playing music, maybe?) would be of some benefit, but I don't know.
Wanted to echo this. A geriatrician is ideal, but I'd even call up his family doctor to ask about medicine that will help with hallucination and/or getting to sleep. My mum would barely sleep for ages on end, keeping me up too as I was so worried about her hurting herself. I could not redirect her to save my life - she was always very strong willed, even before she got sick. But we got a sleep aid that she had crushed up in her dessert, and she'd calm down enough for sleep within an hour of taking it. She didn't end up sleeping through the night, but a 4 hour stretch was a giant victory.
thank you very much!! we do have a routine for him, bed at 6pm ! and then throughout the day he has scheduled meals with his tablets three times a day, and we wake him up a nine. he will talk from like 2am to 6am to random objects in his room, i’ve never seen anything like it before.
thank you ! we let him know it’s the time to sleep, but he just keeps talking, so we leave him- but during the day he’s very confused and agitated because he’s not slept.
my grandad has attempted to leave before, hands full of clothes and random items he’s picked up around the house and i only heard him when he was trying the front door- was lucky it was during the night so it was locked, we are thinking of putting buzzers on doors so we know when he goes into the kitchen. but he is up all night every night for the past two weeks and he’s very agitated because of it during the day.
thank you so much! we’ve never experienced this before and it’s very hard to understand, so thank you very much!
Would you mind sharing which sleeping aid you used?
Often family doctors are reluctant to give 'helpful' meds.
thank you both so much! we will speak to his doctor tomorrow !!
Just checking that we're talking about the same thing, I mean whatever long-held activities he chose to engage in around bedtime before he developed dementia. The things he would do himself to wind down into sleep. 

I'm not an expert by any means, but I wonder if the 6pm bedtime has something to do with his wakefulness. When did he go to bed when he was mentally healthy? To my knowledge, older people trend towards staying up later and need on average less sleep than a younger adult. So if you haven't already, maybe getting the dr's opinion on what might be typical/recommended would give you some insight. It's possible that some shifting in this scheduled routine might produce a system that benefits him more. Just considering options, I'm sure the routine you've developed helps a lot!
Sundowning is the worst part. My dads in the hospice leg of this and he’s still telling me whole bed bound “we gotta get out of here” I’m like dude th is is home. And the seraquil has done very little form him. He is now on a second anxiety pill but he still gets nuts from 6pm till 2 in the morning. You learn to get sleep when you can 🤷🏻‍♀️ I’ve never had a baby but imagine this is somewhat what parents go through
I'm really sorry, but I don't recall. My mum moved into long term care last summer and the details of living and caring for her have begun to fade...
That's for sure true. But you never know what kind of family doc you're dealing with if you don't ask!
Melatonin is a good place to start & is often a front line choice for patients with dementia behaviours that impact sleep. To echo the other wise suggestions, 100% call grandpa's PCP if a Geriatrician is not an option. Lack of sleep can exacerbate all of the behaviours that we see with dementia & it IS something his physician needs to be aware of. Sending your whole family so much love & support.
i do see what you mean, he used to be an active reader and would read before bed , but his vision is deteriorating so he has had to give it up. 

the doctors told us to have a routine with him and we’ve found it hard to get him to bed if he stays up any later, he was falling a lot of he stayed up later and i couldn’t pick him up. i’m not the strongest girl, and my dad works early mornings, so we put him to bed before he goes to sleep.
it’s very hard to tell them they are actually home. lots of naps during the day for us, just very hard when i’m trying to get school work done lol
thank you so much!!
