>Is there someone who specializes in taking a closer look at one’s meds?

Yes, absolutely.  All of your dad's meds should hopefully be through one pharmacy.   I would ask the most experienced pharmacist on staff to look through all of his medications for interactions, etc.   I have found through experience that pharmacists are far more knowledgeable than physicians are about medication interaction.

I've also used this myself to check my Mom's medications, including medications she was given by doctors *while in the hospital,* that supposedly had been pre-screened for interactions and were not: [https://www.drugs.com/drug\_interactions.html](https://www.drugs.com/drug_interactions.html)

I'm not being dramatic when I tell you that using this tool (which takes seconds) saved her life more than once, due to interactions that were not caught and could have killed her.

When I found interactions that were serious I would have the charge nurse page the doctor right away and also refuse to allow my Mom to take the medication.   I never relied solely on this tool; as soon as I found an interaction I called my Mom's pharmacist and had them check it as well.  And guess what? That little internet tool was right every single time.

>Has anyone had success reducing the prescription list of the person they are caring for?

Yes, we have (my sister and I are full time caregivers for my Mom).  But this can only be done under a doctor's care.  I keep very detailed daily spreadsheets on my Mom: her weight (so she doesn't fill up with fluid), her BP, her pulse ox, her amount of fluid intake, what meds she is taking in what dosage (if this differs from her usual dosage) etc etc etc.  I print out the spreadsheets and bring them to the next doctor's visit.  (I have a copy and give a copy to the doctor.) This allows the doctor to see how the patient is doing over time and they can decide based on the data whether or not to decrease the dosage of any medications.

For example, when my Mom started taking Torsemide (a diuretic for her fluid build up due to atrial fibriallation) she started on 20mg per day.  She is now down to 7.5mg per day, and some days as low as 5mg.
Go with him to his next doctors appointment.  Review all of your concerns.  

I started going with my Dad.  I learned that he's not a complainer.  So I have to be the one complaining.  I reviewed my Dad's blood sugars, medication, and reactions.  Turns out my Dad was not giving the doctor the full story about how severely tired he was all day.  My Dad figured he was just a tired old man.  The three of us talked and the doctor cut his diabetes dosage in half.  Dad is so much more energetic and alert.  Turns out his diabetes medications were bringing him too far down.
I second the pharmacist recommendation, my Moms has literally saved her life. 

I would also see if you can get a consult with a Dr who specializes in geriatric medicine. Prescription medication affects the elderly differently and the one we saw made some good changes to my moms meds.
A pharmacist can look at the list of meds and tell you if any interact with each other.
Hi. Just piggy backing off this comment and saying that they're right. I used to be a pharmacy tech and every so often the pharmacist would have a consultation with a patient if requested to go through the meds, symptoms and diagnosis and see which would interfere with what. Remember that a lot of pharmacists now are also Drs and they have to do rotations in hospitals along some hospitalists so they experience a lot more than people realize.
I just checked my own meds on the tool you listed and found an interaction that might FINALLY explain why I get persistent headaches and dizziness. THANK YOU!!
Many medications that the elderly take have Fatigue as a side effect.  

I have to create a list of all the medications that my charges take in case of an emergency and some of them take a ton of stuff.
Thank you for sharing this information.  It's very helpful to hear from someone who was actually in that field.  

It's true that many pharmacists are also doctors, but the pharmacist we rely on isn't.  She's a wonderful resource for us and is always so thorough and responsible.  Her help has been priceless to us.   I truly believe that pharmacists are unsung heroes when it comes to determining medication interactions.   That's their area of specialty and our pharmacist excels at it.
You are so welcome. I'm thrilled you were able to find that out!
