I have experience with nearly this exact same situation with one difference. My mom has just been diagnosed at 58 but she’s had it for at least 6-7 years.

It started with her forgetting things and getting delusions (she started thinking my Dad has a second family that lived in our neighbor (completley false) and that my sister was stealing her jewelry and clothes, and if anything else was missing I stole it.) 

I remember Father’s Day 5 years ago to the day. Our family was very strained and my dad was snapping at my Mom a lot and my sister hated her. I remember we went to Father’s Day lunch and they were making fun of her for being crazy, and I stood up for her and said I think there’s something wrong and she needs help. They got quite and then changed the subject.

After then I would beg my dad to take her to the doctor and his behavior didn’t change. I started sticking up for my mom, even when she was saying crazy shit. If my dad told her to shut up I told him to shut the fuck up and would take my mom for a drive or to ice cream. It led to some physical confrontations, but I kept saying she needed to see a doctor.

Shortly after, I went to college in a very remote are far from home and would come home maybe once annually. Every time I noticed how much my mom regressed and would tell my dad to “take her to the fucking doctor.” He didn’t notice as much since he was with her everyday. The change for him was gradual; but it wasn’t for me. He always said “I ask her to go to the doctor and she always says no.” Which was true. But he wasn’t trying hard enough.

When I graduated I moved back home I had to stand up for my Mom a lot. It took me 3 months but finally got her to go to the doctor. 

She was diagnosed 6 months ago, but my dad still harbors feelings of anger and snaps at her even tho he knows what’s wrong. I stand up for her every chance I get. I take her out for drinks on the weekend and walk the dogs with her every day. And most of all, I try to be her best friend and stand up for her every chance I get. 

You already got the diagnosis, so you’ve skipped ahead to where I wish I was when my mom was 52. 

My advice to you is he her rock. Stand up for your mom when your dad snaps at her. Or don’t, I might have being things wrong on that end. When he snaps at her take her for a walk, go get ice cream, or just do anything with her. And speak with your dad about controlling his feelings and your not going to sit there and let him verbally abuse your mom.

But more than anything—set the example and be her best friend. Show your family how to be patient with her and hang out with her as much as possible. Take her out for drives to get coffee or Ice cream, go for walks and drives with her. And when at home remove her from any situation where she might breakdown or be snapped at. Be understanding of her delusions and anger. Always be calm and be that best friend.

I don’t know how old you are, but I’m 25 and have a good job. I could’ve moved out almost 2 years ago but I stay because of my mom. My friends call me every weekend but they know the situation and know I have a higher obligation. They understand why I’m not around as much anymore. This would have been a lot harder if I was in high school and my friends and would be less understanding.:. But the right thing to do is be there for your mom and do what’s right.

Have her last memories be of how kind you were and all the little things you do. Set the example for your family and talk to your dad about how she’s not the same anymore. 

I just bought this book for me and my dad (arrives Monday)  called the “36 hour Day” to help him better understand. He’s stopped snapping at her due to my defense, but he still treats her like she’s 5 year old he’s forced to babysit. But that’s progress from what the situation was like and I hope it moves on from here.

Let your dad know your mom’s never going to be the woman he married again. But he can still love her and take care of the woman who he once fell in love with. Something he would want her to do for him if the roles were reversed. 

It’ll take time, but you need to set the example, be her best friend, and talk to your dad and try to explain the situation in ways he can understand. Don’t be afraid. You need to be strong for your mom. Buy her little gifts and perform small acts of kindness everyday. Lead the way, my friend.

I know this is a rant, but I felt compelled to tell my story. I hope this helps you in any or some way. There’s plenty of other books that might help your dad understand. I hope you find a way to let him know not to abandon the person he promised his life to because she became sick. Ask him if he would respond the same if she had cancer? 


Dementia is rough. It breaks hearts and minds. Do what you have to to make your
Mom’s last memories the best she could have ever have. Bust of luck brother.
Is your dad someone who generally doesn't have much patience? Or is this an expression of his grief at the situation? 

After my parents diagnosis I was very angry and had no patience for a long time. As the disease has progressed I have learnt to accept that my anger was with the disease not with my parent and have found some patience. Talk to your dad and get him to talk to your mum.
I'm sorry you are experiencing this kind of situation. While I don't have a parent with dementia, but my grandpa has been severely declining for the last couple of years. His actions tend to put my dad and his siblings in tight spots as they would clean up his mess. Grandpa has lost money to scams, but he thought they were legit. My dad and uncle are now in charge of his finances as he can't write out his taxes due to mobility issues in his hands and he refuses to use a computer to do them. 

Grandma did say grandpa does things she's afraid of, so my family would talk to him about this, but he can't remember what it was. We had talks of sending them to an assisted living facility, but then COVID-19 hit and nursing homes were hit hard by the virus. We did try to have grandpa accept a nurse or someone who could come and do their chores for them, but he's very stubborn and doesn't want to lose what little independence he has. It's a scary path to walk on as he can be a scary man when he's in a lucid state or something. 

I wish there was some advice to share, but with COVID-19, it is a scary time for those who have dementia or mental issues. Try to be strong for your parents.
I'm sorry about your mum, and I'm sorry you're stuck running between them.

If finances allow, could you hire a companion to visit with your mum when you aren't around? Not a medical professional, but someone who knows about how to spend time with someone who has dementia. My mum had a companion for a while, and the companion became my mum's "best friend" as many of her older pals floated away.
I've got a little over a decade of age on you and am dealing with the same, my Mom's not been remotely understanding towards my Dad as he's gotten worse and worse and their marriage never really was good. Over the years, from what I could gather from relatives was she'd suspected him of fooling around early on but never called him on it and instead just treated him like crap often. I grew up having to mediate usually a few times a week, but the dementia has made it ridiculous.

Before my Dad's short term memory basically vanished, he'd reached the point of utterly hating her for how nasty she was and sometimes still is towards him. My trying to convince her something was wrong never worked until recently, so now he's in hospital being assessed but is so far gone we were told to expect weeks before anything definite would be known. I'm stuck making final decisions on most things as she defers to me rather than dealing with any of it, which is bothering the hell out of me.

The only way I found to avoid having to mediate so much was to basically lock myself in the room with him and become a full time babysitter before he reached the point where I needed to bathe him and whatnot. Mom was either oblivious to this or willfully ignored it, I have no clue - but it cut way down on the yelling which was nice.

I managed to survive until now by giving myself an hour of me time late at night, I'd get up around 2am and just watch random stuff on YouTube, play something cozy like Stardew Valley, or go for a walk. Dad is sundowning real bad now so I have a feeling when he comes home the me time will be a thing of the past but yeah. I keep existing, but how I interact with everyone has been forever changed by this experience.
I'm going to say all the shitty things because you got good emotional support from others already. 

Husbands are far, far, far more likely to leave their marriage when their spouses are ill.  This is even more true when the disease is a long one that turns a relationship from "marriage" to "caregiver".   Some of this may be down to depression: when men are depressed, they try to control things more and harder and tighter.  Whether leaving the marriage is in the form of finding other partners (which can save a "caregiver" relationship) or divorce, other familial relationships are often irreperably damaged.  If you want an ongoing relationship with your dad, you may have to decide whether you're OK with him taking these routes, and if you can give him advance permission so any guilt doesn't make him lash out even harder.  That last one is a stretch, I know. 

Caregivers burn out.  Then they either leave the field or self-destruct.  Keeping your dad from burning out would probably help a lot.  Do you have any options around you for assistance?  Have you tried CBD oils?  What about taking your dad out for a movie, or encouraging him to do his hobby while you help with your mom? 

I'm sorry, these things are kinda awful to talk about.  Please take time for yourself if this has been a shock. 

[https://awarenessact.com/me-are-6-times-more-likely-to-leave-their-wives-when-serious-illness-strikes-studies-show/](https://awarenessact.com/me-are-6-times-more-likely-to-leave-their-wives-when-serious-illness-strikes-studies-show/)

&#x200B;

> [https://www.healthy-holistic-living.com/men-are-more-likely-to-leave-their-wives-when-serious-illness-strikes-studies-show/](https://www.healthy-holistic-living.com/men-are-more-likely-to-leave-their-wives-when-serious-illness-strikes-studies-show/)  
>  
>For example, one study observed  almost 3,000 straight married couples where either the husband or wife  had a serious illness such as cancer,  heart problems, lung disease, or stroke. The wife’s illness was linked  to a higher risk for divorce while the husband’s illness more commonly  resulted in widowhood, meaning women were more likely to uphold their  vows of ‘through sickness and health’. (1)  
>  
>Another study, which focused more  specifically on young cancer survivors, found a similar result. While  only 13% of male survivors became divorced or separated following their  diagnosis, 21% of female survivors found themselves divorced or  separated following diagnosis. (2)

&#x200B;

>[http://www.oprah.com/relationships/why-men-leave-sick-wives-facing-illness-alone-couples-and-cancer/all](http://www.oprah.com/relationships/why-men-leave-sick-wives-facing-illness-alone-couples-and-cancer/all)  
>  
> A 2009 study published in the journal *Cancer* found that a married  woman diagnosed with a serious disease is six times more likely to be  divorced or separated than a man with a similar diagnosis. Among study  participants, the divorce rate was 21 percent for seriously ill women  and 3 percent for seriously ill men. A control group divorced at a rate  of 12 percent, suggesting that if disease makes husbands more likely to  split, it makes wives more likely to stay.
That sounds rough, I’m sorry.
My mum was diagnosed at 51 and it put a huge strain on my parents relationship. My dad was very much in denial about the whole situation and became very frustrated and angry often. I found that talking to him about my mums symptoms, and researching the disease with him (more like forwarding him links to useful information I’d found) really helped him understand that my mum couldn’t help what she was doing, and allowed him to find ways to help her cope/help himself cope.
I don’t know how feasible it is for you, but myself and my sibling help him share the load a bit by having a kind of ‘care rota’. This lets him worry less when he’s not at home and allows him some time to himself.
They went through a very rough patch for a while but although their relationship has changed, they seem very happy together again. I don’t know if these are things that might help you and your family, but they definitely helped mine.
How very sad for you and your mom. Such an early diagnosis is just tragic. Your dad really needs to learn how to handle this. There is a video someone recommended on this site that really helped my husband understand what I'm going through with early dementia. I watched it with him and it really made a difference in how he reacts to me. It drags a little in the beginning but it packs the right punch. Insist he sit down and watch it with you and your mom. It could help him learn to cope. Good luck, honey. You are too young to have to suffer from this. I'm sorry.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TUJFS0DNadw&feature=share
Thank you so much for the comment, I'm sorry you've had to deal with this - your mother is lucky to have you. I definitely feel as though I am my mum's rock, we go for walks every day and spend a lot of time together, which I know makes her much happier as my dad straight up just avoids her. One thing I worry a lot about is how she will cope when I'm not around - when I'm at uni I still try to come over once a week to check in, but it just feels like it's not enough as she's nearly always down because she's been alone all the rest of the week.
I'll try to have a proper conversation with my dad. I brought it up briefly, but I know that it's hard for him too so I tend to try not to seem like I'm having a go at him - he doesn't verbally abuse her, more that he just gets a snappy tone with her when she repeats herself, for example. But I can tell that even something as small as that brings my mum a lot of pain, so I hope I can get him to be more patient and understanding, as this is a really traumatic experience for her more than him and me. Thanks for the comment and sharing your story, I really appreciate the words. I am a girl but thanks for the well wishes hahah. Best of luck to you too
He's never been the most patient, although the strain and process of grieving my mum's change is no doubt taking it's toll. I'll try to have a proper conversation with him about it and hopefully over time he finds some more patience. Thanks for the comment
Thank you for the kind words, it's such an awful disease. I'll try to be strong, wishing the best for you and your family too
I think in the future as her state declines that would be a really good idea, but right now she's very defensive and almost in denial about her condition - so I think she'd get mad at me if I tried to do that haha. I'll save that idea for the not too distant future though, thanks:)
I'm so sorry to hear of your experience, it sounds very difficult - having time to myself is definitely something that helps, I play a lot of animal crossing to relax and take my mind of things haha. At present my mum's condition hasn't deteriorated to the extreme, but by how much she's changed in the last few years, I expect it's not far off, which I'm trying to brace myself for. It's hard not to feel guilty for wishing that I could just run away and not have to deal with it. Thank you for the comment, it may seem silly but I don't know anybody irl who understands my current situation, it's unfortunate that anyone has to deal with these things, but I feel less isolated for sure.
I have considered that he might leave her, but I don't think he'd do it until someone else becomes more involved as a carer in her life as to leave her would be a pretty heartless thing to do, not just to her, but to me and my younger brother, neither of us being in a position to care for her. My dad IS definitely disengaged from the marriage, but I don't think he's a scumbag who'd leave her knowing that she'd either have to fend for herself, or I'd have to drop out of uni to take care of her. However, I do think that once she reaches the point of needing full time care, he'll probably put her in some kind of home as he's not short of money - and THEN I fully expect him to move on from her and perhaps find a new partner. As for how I feel about it.. to be honest, I have absolutely no clue because that situation seems so removed from reality, even though I'm aware it's possible. It's something I perhaps need to think about more, but it's not a pleasant thought. But then again, none of this is
Hi, thanks for the comment, I definitely need to have a proper conversation with my dad about my mum's condition, so I'll try to follow your advice and go through some info on dementia and how to help her, to maybe give him a better sense of what she's going through. Unfortunately he's just not naturally very patient, which is what I'm worried about as she's only going to become worse over time, and it's only going to get harder. I really hope that he can come to peace with this, and perhaps try to view his position as one of support for my mum, rather than babysitting, which I think is how he views it now. Thanks:)
Ahaha apologies on assuming your gender. I read your story and just pictured you as me in a different time. 

You’re doing all the right things and I’m proud of you for figuring out as soon as you have. It took me a lot longer. 

It may be tough to sit down with your dad, as he’s definitely dealing with it in his own way too. But hard discussions are necessary when things of this nature happen to a family. It’s unavoidable and just not talking about it will just create a powder keg.

Going to Uni for me was the hardest thing. I’d come back and my mom would hold me crying. Even now she says things “like I don’t know what I’d do without out you” or “please don’t leave me with these people.” 

She’s a stay at hone mom and due to the disease her social life is long gone. All she has is our two little dogs and me. My girlfriend and I are planning on moving out but I refuse to move out of the county (or more than 30 minutes away. Which is tough, because my girl got an amazing job in North Carolina (I live in California) and she wanted me to come with. I told her I couldn’t and she understood why; but I told her to take the job and go.

But she didn’t. She took a job with half the pay around here so we can stay close and take care of my mom. I don’t know how many years I have left with her.

I’d recommend visiting her as much as you can while at Uni. It sounds like you can reach her without too much trouble. I was a 14 hour drive away with a 4 hour drive to the nearest airport. My biggest regret is choosing the college I did instead of going to the local college that accepted me. But then I never would’ve met my girl.

But I wish more than anything I could’ve visited my mom more.

I wish you and your family nothing but the best and wish I could offer you more help and advice. You sound like an amazing daughter and please, don’t ever try to blame yourself about anything that happens in the next few months. This disease can rip those around it from the inside out. All I can say is stay strong. 

Best of luck, friend.
My mum was super defensive too... I admit I lied. I told her that I had a friend moving to town and asked my mum to show her around. My mum never knew that her "best friend" was a paid companion - their relationship evolved very organically. 

I totally get that that might not work for everyone, but I wanted to throw it out there in case it's helpful!
Yeah, gaming helps me so much with this. I guess it's kind of the only reliable thing I have now, most of the friends I had both offline and on left or started ghosting me when I mentioned what was going on. It kind of seems like people treat dementia like cancer, they try to distance for fear they'll catch it from you or your person somehow.

Don't feel guilty for wanting to leave, I think our people would want us to if they were still their real selves. I know I would if someone was stuck dealing with me being worse and worse daily.

This sub helps a ton with lessening the feelings of isolation, I spend a ton of time on here weekly trying to learn more in hopes it helps with Dad's journey somehow.
Ah thank you, yeah I chose to go to a nearby university so that I can visit as regularly as possible in order to support her - although it doesn't feel regular enough sometimes. luckily I have all of summer to take care of her. I'm so sorry your situation is so difficult, the your kindness towards your mother is amazing and you seem like a great son, plus it's lovely that your girlfriend is so supportive and understanding. Facing my mum's condition and knowing that it'll only get worse is a difficult pill to swallow, and to be honest I'm terrified, but I just want my her to be happy. I'll try to be strong. Thank you for the kind words, hope you and your loved ones take care
How very kind of you to help your mom find a "best friend."
The dishonesty in caregiving never sat right with me, and still doesn't... But I do hope it was a kindness.
