[deleted]
I only know that every time my husband got sick and wound up in the hospital, he would have a serious decline.

I don't know much about Haldol, but if it is overly potent for him then maybe you can request a medication that is not so strong? My husband had Valium but he only took it when he needed to.

Declines can be sudden and from a variety of reasons. Some of his medications could have side effects. You could always take him for a second opinion or see another doctor.
If they took a scan of his brain then it's probably pretty accurate cuz Alzheimer's if I'm not mistaken his has characteristic plaques and stuff formed in the brain?
[deleted]
This doesn't really hang together.  There is no such thing as "normal type of older age forgetfulness."  Alzheimer's is so common that memory loss is thought to be normal!  It isn't.  Old age, and we don't know the age here, is associated with 'tip of tongue' syndrome and forgetting faces, anything else is abnormal.  So the rest of the post falls apart after that. Because if he wasn't normal, then he didn't rapidly "switch from normal" into Alzheimer's disease. 

Also, getting a PET scan as an inpatient would be unusual.  Glucose PET scans don't show "mild onset of Alzheimer's."  It only shows loss of metabolism in areas typically affected by AD, and are only approved to show differences between AD and another dementia called FTD.  They are usually read as such, comments about staging the dementia would not be made by a radiologist.  But if the doctors got a FDG PET scan (as an inpatient?) for diagnosis, it may speak to confounders like no clear history.  There are other PET scans: Amyloid PET scans are just positive or negative.  It is the recently approved tau PET scans that CAN give staging.  

Encephalopathy is very common, could be triggered by dehydration, infection, stress.  UTIs are easy to look for, so commentators who mention this are off base.  This can take weeks to months to resolve, even if the reason was corrected.
Something similar is happening right now to my dad. He has type 2 diabetes and Chronic kidney disease for which he takes medication, but his mental condition began declining rapidly very suddenly on 4th of May and ever since then it's been a nightmare for us. Multiple doctors have just labeled this dementia and prescribed haloperidol and quetiapine which i now feel after a full month, have made things worse for him. We did a urinalysis too and could not find any trace of UTI, I am so confused and helpless.
Hi! I’m sure I don’t have anything new to add here but:

I’m a PSW and can say that sudden decline is usually related to a UTI, or a reaction to a medication switch/anesthesia or something along those lines. However, it may just be an unfortunate coincidence. I would 100% get some other opinions though and check for any infections.
I highly recommend you watch [this video](https://youtu.be/t--mkzfHuIE) Teepa Snow is amazing and addresses the problem of misdiagnosed dementia
Came here to say the same thing.  My mom had a very sudden,  very drastic decline in her Alzheimer's.  Her doctor checked and she had a bad uti. No symptoms at all.  Quick course of antibiotics and she was back to her baseline.
Thank you.  We do wonder if it is related to some kind of infection.
Thank you - we did ask for a reduction in his medication and that seems to have improved things a little.  We do wonder about the meds and how they are interacting together, in addition to side effects.
Yes, we definitely do believe he has Alzheimers, but it was shown to be very mild. It's the suddenness of the change that we don't understand.
Thank you, this is helpful. he is on BP meds, not sure of exact type but will look into this for sure. My gut is that this is either something to do with meds, or infection as someone mentioned earlier-
I'm not too familiar with PET scans but I imagine a stroke would be apparent.
Thanks for your response.  He is 76. I would actually describe his previous behavior as "tip of the tongue" forgetfulness and that is the extent of it. 

We have heard from members of his care team how unusual it is to get a PET scan - he also had an MRI and other tests but they could not figure out the cause of his delirium, which is why they ordered the PET.  I don't know any more details about the type of PET scan however.  Only that they told us that they saw Alzheimers but that it was "very slight" or "early" (not sure of exact language).
It does sound very similar, especially the feeling that the meds have made this worse.  He has been weaning off the meds slowly and I feel like he is coming back to his old self. Not fully because he is so weak with all of the weight loss, but the impact of the meds was significant I think.  I know how you feel, we checked for UTI and nothing.  Labs came back today, no changes from baseline.  Next is a visit with a Neurologist tomorrow, we are hoping to get some kind of diagnosis and then, with the meds leaving his system, want to see if we can figure out what his new baseline is.
Thank you, I will check it out.
thank you!
Same with my mom. When her hallucinations turn scary and she becomes both paranoid and depressed she is checked right away for a UTI. One time she had a hidden abscess that sent her off the rails. It wasn't until it popped that anyone realized it was there.  

Good luck and remember to take care of yourself too!
They ruled out stroke I believe.
Wrong tool.  Strokes are clinical diagnoses.  Supported by imaging, but ultimately clinical.
Tip-of-the-tongue and forgetting are two very different things.  Former is mild problems like 'hand me the thingamajig.'  Latter is repeating questions, forgetting information, needing reminders.  Be careful with your language, you're going to need it to get to the bottom of this, because eventually you're going have to see someone who knows how to diagnose AD. 

I'm not even sure where to start with your father's hospital team.  I fully know the dangers of Monday morning QBing, and I don't know the story, but there are concerns with overutilization, ordering tests that don't change mgmt, not being able to interpret the test properly, and failing to place the test into clinical context.  This stuff is med school 101.  

Get to a doctor, neurologist or psychiatrist or IM, who specializes in memory and AD.
Hmm, something similar here in terms of coming back to his old self, but I am not sure yet. It's just a feeling. How do I feel like this? Because last night, he did not pace around ALL night. He ACTUALLY managed not to mess with things in the room and the home. Even if he wasn't asleep. That maybe just one day and thus I can't tell, and the confusion is still there sometimes. But one thing is for sure, he hasn't been transformed into a sleepy zombie that the medicine had made him too. Which even made having lunch a huge chore, because he never would if you did not keep trying to get him to eat for more than an hour. I really hope you can figure out what's wrong with your dad and hopefully he is fine as soon as possible. I am happy to know that you feel like he is coming back. Keep us posted here please, thanks.
thank you!
Thanks.  He does have a Geriatric Psychiatrist, and thankfully his care team knows his prior baseline so they were equally shocked upon seeing/speaking with him after he was discharged.  We have an appt with Cognitive Neuro tomorrow. I really want to bring him to where I am (Boston) for an eval/second opinion at one of the major teaching hospitals, but only telehealth is currently available. On top of that, there would be quarantine restrictions upon crossing back over the border to where he is, so we need to wait until restrictions are further eased.
