My nan has Vascular Dementia and she has real difficulty staying asleep too. She isn't in a wheelchair so she is up and wandering around the house 3+ times a night. Almost every time she gets up, she's confused, aggressive and telling me that someone told her to get up (she is obsessed with "the lady" or "the man" telling her to do things). It can take 30mins to convince her to go back to bed. She will nap during the day if no one stops her and she'd fall asleep at 8pm if i let her. 

What I found worked for her was I force her to stay awake till 10pm, if she falls asleep on the sofa, i wake her up and keep her entertained to keep her awake. 

I give herbal sleep aids that you can get in the pharmacy, they don't affect any of her other medication. You can also get non herbal sleep aids too. They aren't sleeping pills, they are sleep aids so you don't have to ask the doctor.

I also give her a 400mg ibuprofen called cuprofen which you can get behind the counter at the pharmacy too, 20 mins before bed.

I also stick to the exact same bedtime routine. Same actions, same phrases and same goodnight speech. 

The biggest thing for us is not letting her sleep during the day if you can avoid it. It will annoy her if you have to keep waking her up from her nap but it is worth it because you need to sleep at night too. 

This might not work for you and it doesn't work every night for me but I hope it is some benefit.
My grandma also has vascular dementia and has a hard time sleeping at night. Unfortunately we haven’t done much to stop her from napping in the day, since my mom and I, her primary caretakers, have things to attend to like online classes (she is also a diabetic so she really falls asleep quite easily). After dinner she would go to bed already and that’s around 7-830 PM. She wakes up multiple times at night, thus my mom and I get little sleep. Sometimes she’s sleeptalking/dreaming with her eyes open so she sees all these people in her “dream” and she talks to them very loudly. Sometimes she doesn’t recognize our home/room and wakes my mom and I up to take her home. This is the most often situation and sometimes she thinks we’re in a church or shop and I have to lead her to the living room to show her our family pictures on display to convince her this IS our house. Sometimes she would just walk around in and out of the room and end up going to bed after a while. How I can tell if she would sleep straight is if she doesn’t sleep talk when she falls asleep, she probably would stay quiet the whole night. I’m thinking of creating a nighttime routine for her too, such as praying the rosary (shes religious), since I see many posts that that should help. 

Recently she has been started on Seroquel (quetiapine) and I think it’s helped with her mood (used to be very aggressive and violent) and her sleep too because its also a sedative. She still wakes up at night but less now and falls back to sleep faster. I think you should ask her doctor if there’s any medication she could take to aid with her sleep at night!
Oh when my grandma wakes up, she is in a groggy state and often falls asleep while speaking too. So I guess she's just falling in and out of sleep, and is unable to enter deep sleep. I'll look out for suitable medication/herbal remedies too. Thanks and hope your nighttime routine works for your nan more often and stay safe!
We used to have this problem of my grandma not recognising that she's home too, but that's when we bring her out for walks. We created a routine where before she reaches home, we would constantly repeat that we are going home, and once we reach, constantly assure her that we're home. Not sure how it would work for you and whether bringing her out and back in would be something to try. We spoke to some doctors but because of her other conditions, she can't really take strong sedatives. Will look out for other options too! Thanks and stay safe!
