People often ask how my mother is doing. When they hear that she's physically well (disgustingly healthy, actually), they're like "Oh, that's great!"

No, no it isn't. Her mind is gone and she needs 24 hour supervision. The best thing that could happen is for her to not wake up tomorrow. But of course I can't say that out loud.
I realized at one point that I was venting to one of my friends a lot, and she never complained to me or told me to stop, but she did mention that she had a really good therapist if I wanted to talk to her.

What I took from that: I think it was her gentle way of saying if you need to see a therapist or join a support group to talk through this, there's absolutely no shame in that. But it's not good to use your friends as therapists. 

I made a big effort since then not to bring up my mother or complain about her when I'm with friends. If they bring it up, I'll answer their questions briefly, but more like a general statement, or an anecdote where I can find some humor, not open it up like a counseling session. And then I ask how they're doing, and move on. That way, the friendship stays more balanced, but also - and more importantly, the time I'm with friends becomes a nice diversion for me and I focus on enjoying my time with them, instead of just more time I'm wallowing in my misery.
Support group, support group, support group. Every Alzheimer's Association office has at least one. Not only does the group encourage venting, then offering support, but they also have great suggestions on how to manage everything from behaviors to finances to burnout. These are folks going through the same trials. Some have been doing this longer than others. They are a great resource for me.
Wow, sorry to hear of your experience. I don’t have a lot of close friends at this stage of my life, but the ones I do have are sympathetic. One has the experience himself to know how trying it can be.


For someone inexperienced I can see how it may be tough or new to hear. You shouldn’t take it as “I’m doing something wrong”. You’re in an extremely difficult situation.
Think your need to vent comes from the frustration of not having solutions.  Is there any chance you can look for help in your community. I suggest this after having met many family care givers who had no idea that some of their burden could be shared or supported by organizations in the community.  

There are state and county agencies on aging.  There are church groups that sometimes offer respite care during the day for dementia patients.  There are volunteer organizations that can provide help with chores, etc. 

This may not be available to you but you may be surprised to find that some of the pressure can be relieved.
I only had one friend like that.  Platitudes like “just be happy, get over it.”  Ugh.  Good luck.
Same. Well my mom isn’t healthy anymore, on top of her mind being gone. She’s pretty much like a baby (fed and changed, can no longer speak)So I totally understand that feeling. I feel like it’s not fair they have to live like this. We aren’t wishing death on our parents, it’s just that they aren’t living, just existing. And it’s heartbreaking to see them like that. 

I’m glad to know someone out there is feeling the same.
You can say anything out loud to us. People ask how my dad is and I've learnt to temper my responses to certain people because they just don't understand the reality.
I second this. It can be tough on friends if you always dump on them. Finding a support group where you can find like-minded people who really understand what you're going through will help a lot. They won't be shocked at the things you say because they have thought them too
Thanks. You’re right about not using friends as therapists. This friend is closer to being like family, she calls my mom aunt (her mom and my mom are like sisters) so she asks a lot of questions which lead me down the road of venting. But your approach is really good. Just answer the questions and keep it moving. I’ll definitely try and do that. Thanks again!
Thanks! Yes our local Alz Assoc is awesome. I went once to a support group meeting but things get so hectic. I need to start making time for myself to go. Thanks again :)
Yes, you’re totally right. I think from her point of view, it’s difficult to hear and really genuinely understand. I try and take that into account. Thank you :)
Thanks! Yes, I’ve got a caregiver for her now but it’s all the other stuff that comes with being a guardian for an incapacitated person too, I think that’s what really gets me. Plus it’s really both my parents that I’m responsible for, my mom is worse off than my dad. So it’s stress on both ends. But the council on aging here is good and we have a local Alz support group.
Yeah, I hate when she says that or “reframe”. Like I can’t between my own depression and the stress of handling things for both parents, working and being pregnant. Stress is my life. Thanks though.
It is heartbreaking. I’m dreading this going on for many more years.
Thanks, I try not to dump on her. She just asks so many questions that open the door to my venting since she’s more like family. Our moms are like sisters so we’re more like cousins (literally used to fight over the high chair as little ones lol). But thanks for your suggestion!
I wish you the best of luck with your parents and your baby.  Come back here for support anytime.  My mom had Alzheimer’s and I was the caregiver for five years.  Her sister lived for 15 years with Alzheimer’s and her son, my cousin,  took care of her the entire time (she was 95 when she died).  I have a lot of compassion for you, and anyone going through this.
It is, it’s hard watching a parent or any loved one decline. But sometimes I like to think, in the end all of us will be stronger for having gone through this. Wishing you lots of strength and support 💜
Thank you so much. You know just how hard it is emotionally, physically, etc. I like to think anyone who has gone through this is incredibly strong, even when we feel we’re at our weakest. Thank you again for your words and support 💜
Your welcome.  Hang in there.
