I've always heard that it's like you lose them twice. So sorry for your loss
I'm so very sorry for you and your mom's loss.  It's a long, hard journey to a sad end.
Condolences. Be strong for your Mom.
I’m sorry for your loss. Even when we know it’s coming, it can still be a shock.
Good luck to you in your grieving and healing. Sending love.
It is so hard. That bed, and your house will be filled with your memories of him at every turn, and at times he will feel larger than life. Take it easy. One step at a time. Big internet hugs to you and your mom.
Sorry for your loss but allow yourself to breath a sigh of relief. You've done all you can. They have now passed and suffer no longer. Your shift is over.
The thing to remember is that you are not some super natural superhero. Will there be things that you can think of that you could have or should have done better? Absolutely! Does that mean you should feel guilty? Absolutely NOT! 

You did the best you could with the resources you had. That is all you can do. It's all anyone can do. 

So head up, shoulders back. As my grandfather would have said, "You done good!"
I'll tell you what, since my mother was diagnosed in 2016 (though parts of it were present years beforehand), I've been grieving the whole time. Watching, experiencing, and witnessing the decline and life slip away is strange. I'm unsure how I will be after she passes (Dr just gave her about a year). Perhaps I will be able to release my pent up sadness and grief. It will be a relief, sad as it is.
That's exactly it.  In fact, when my mom was still living, my girlfriend at the time mentioned that I spoke about her in past tense, and i didnt even realize i was doing that.
We are working on it called ssi to report the death and his pension services. The worst part is the dme can’t pick the bed up until tomorrow afternoon so I have this sad sad dog and a empty hospital bed staring at me every time
I walk through my house
Yeah, just cleaning up the financial mess he left behind. He refused to give any details of his retirement to mom so we don’t even know what if any her survivors benifits. It’s complications my dad loved us but he was not into ever worrying about the future. Either way the hand is laid and we just have to take whatever comss to come.
damn that actually hit me right now. i always talk about my grandpa in past tense and don't even realize. fuck dementia
> so I have this sad sad dog

Take your Mom and the dog out to a park...even if only for an hour.
I wish you success in figuring it all out.
