Bound to be hard. Reintroduce your mom to your brother, say as a family friend at first then if she’s lucid enough, tell her he is her son
I'm the child that takes care of and moved in with my father when he started showing signs, yet I'm the forgotten one between me and my brother. Any time he comes to me he thinks of me as my brother (mentions having a wife and baby, I have neither) and when I have to address that I'm his youngest he then wonders where I've been his whole life even though he obviously raised me and was always there. It's a strange feeling for sure. Like, dude, how do you think you get by everyday? I know it's not something he can control but the path of logic can be absolutely wild sometimes.
I've also experienced this
I looked after my Dad who had Vascular Dementia for 4 years before he passed
I saw him every day for 12-18 hours yet he didn't really know who I was
My Brother saw him once a week for 2 hours and Dad used to stand at door waiting for him

These things can happen,you can only do your best
Good luck
It’s the mind it just does strange things. My grandfather often thinks my grandmother is another women with the same name and that the old her left years ago. Really hard to explain and he often thinks different versions of that.
I'm only slightly worried about this when my sister visits next month because she's been out of state for years. My mother is in about stage 6/7 with early on set (she's 61). She has no short term and her long term is gone too. So I'm worried for her (my sister) and how it will affect her. I'm with my mother almost every day and when I ask her who her daughter is, she says, "my daughter? I don't have a daughter" but when I say her name she knows who it is. *Shrug.
i'm living with my grandmother who has dementia and she certainly can remember she has kids but doesn't recognize them physically. also she's very hard to deal with these days, best of patience and understanding to all who's living with family members that has dementia!
I wouldn’t say this is a common occurrence but it definitely happens.  It must be very hard on your brother but it likely has nothing to do with favoritism so I hope he can understand that.
I've only ever seen this with a child that has been uninvolved (minimally) past adult life
My dad does something similar to my mum and the story can change wildly within minutes through the day.
