I am no help as I am going through this with my husband. I just wanted to wish both of you peace at this time.
Sudden changes in Alzheimer's patients can be a sign of infection, there's also the chance that she had a small stroke. I'd suggest getting her checked out by a doctor.
My mother went through that about 6 months before she died.  Her Dr diagnosed a severe uti (no symptoms) and also gave have her an appetite stimulant that seemed to help.  We used a lot of ensure (called it her shake) to help to.  

Either way,  I'd get her to her Dr.  If the end is near,  ask for a hospice eval too.

  I'm so sorry you are going through this.  Hang in there and don't forget to take care of yourself too.  Easier said than done i know.
My mom has fallen off that cliff too.  She broke her hip 2 days after the lockdown and had to have surgery and 2 months of rehab. Of course we weren't allowed to visit other than at her window. She has hearing aids so those visits were extremely difficult for her. She is now back at her memory care facility but they recommended hospice care for her. She lost 12 pds in 2 1/2 months and now she thinks someone is poisoning her food.  She can't understand why relatives who have passed away are not visiting her, but she's not recognizing her children or grandchildren. I hope that peace comes soon for her. What a cruel disease Alzheimer's is.
6lbs lost over the last 10 days, on maybe 150kcal a day. She just doesn't have the weight to spare and she's getting weaker.
Sorry to hear. Im not in a similar spot but ive been a caretaker for a few Alzheimer's patients.

Most of them do get to this point, refusal to eat or drink. That is just the bodies way of begining to shut down. You can force food and drink to prolong life, some do, some dont. I generally dont recommend it. 

Offer pudding or other soft foods and enough water to keep her mouth moist. 

Putting chapstick on will help with the lip chapping due to dehydration. 

Eye drops too, as the eyes will feel dry.

She will probably begin to refuse water, if she hasnt already. If you do give her water, thicken it because her ability to swallow will diminish as she gets weaker. Less solid foods as well, pedisure or something similar. Oatmeal, etc. 

If she is totally refusing food, ive seen some patients go a month; without food. But never more than 2 months (by personal experience)

Once they refuse water and no IV is given, ive seen them go a week, up to 3 weeks.

This isnt a given, just my personal experience. Just keep her as comfortable as possible. If you havent already gotten hospice involved, now may be the time.
My mother is the opposite. She doesn't remember eating, so she eats everything all night. Even the Meals on Wheels packages.  It seems to really mess with appetite.
Happy your mom had hip surgery & recovered! Wish I could say the same about my MIL. Family put her in a rest home & gave her 4 weeks to adjust +3 weeks on NP destabilizing benzos that caused her to fall repeatedly (she never fell before). Broke her hip. No one 😡called 911 & she was dead 3 weeks later. 😩

MIL Went into care home ‘walking a daily mile w/ a smile’ w/ me and the dog and came out ‘high often, nailed in a coffin’⚰️. 10 weeks total.
Very sorry about your MIL.  Falls are very common with Alzheimer's. My mom has had multiple falls at the rehab facility and at memory care facility. She simply cannot remember she needs to call for help to get up. She was using a walker before the hip fracture, now she is in a wheel chair.  Again I'm very sorry for your loss. May she rest in peace.
Thank you. So sad. We built her up specifically to withstand the care facility. She was truly walking a mile a day unaided w/ me & our dog just before entering. Never fell at our house the 8 weeks she was here. 

Studies show that Benzos are notorious for causing falls during first 2 weeks prescribed. Never imagined that she’d break her femur after just 7 weeks in care facility Hell! Upsetting that they would not dial 9-1-1. My 1st grader knows how.
My mom just turned 90 but she had so many medical issues in her 80's. When she was still living in her condo, she fell and broke her femur. She wasn't showing signs of dementia then. Went out to get the newspaper in the rain. 

When she broke her hip, she was getting up "to go to breakfast". It was Saint Patrick's day and it was 11 pm and i had just fallen asleep. They called 911 and then me and the doctor for the facility.  Spent the night on the phone with the hospital. Lock down for covid had just started so we weren't allowed to be there with her.  

Really agree with you about them not calling 911.
Love hearing about your mom. Thanks so much for sharing!
