I hate to say it, but start lying to him. Tell him white lies. It's all arranged, you leave tomorrow, or you'll have to go to the bank for the money, or you'll call the travel agency tomorrow. You'll have to figure out what calms him down and what he won't remember. 

An Alzheimers care person glibly informed my mum that the dining hall was under renovation which was the reason she couldn't go there. Actually, it was Mum's first couple of days in the memory ward.

I know it's horrible to lie to your father, but you're lying to help him. Is he wanting to connect with his family? To his land? Several years ago some dirt from North Korea was given to some South Koreans. Did you see that story? They were in tears, and I was very touched. Is there a way to bring Korea to him?
My mom is the same way. She was promised by my dad that they'd retire back in her home country. He kept making excuses about not being able to afford it yet. He died unexpected and she's pissed that he never kept that promise. A social worker told me that even if we did get her back to the UK, she'd still beg to go home as it's a comfort thing.

I saw a memory care community created a dining room to look just like a train car. They got bench seating and tables, built a window frame around a small TV, and put in a curtain that looked like it was a train car. They play drone travel videos to make it look like the train is going through the country on it's way to the destination. I've always wondered if that might work to calm my mom down.
Came to say this...great advice...well it's the only advice to give..as you say,they are white lies,and over time you become good at it,in a funny way!.. With my mam,who always wants to go home,it can take hours to calm her down, talking,white lies,and mostly take her for a spin in the car,all the time talking to her.Then back to "her" house for a nice cuppa!..
100% agree with this. Maybe start with, ok, I will book the ticket!  Where in North Korea do you want to go?  use this opportunity to learn more about his past.  I wonder who / why he is determined to go.  As you get information, ok great, I will book the plane/ train/ boat ticket  If that doesn't settle him down, ok your ticket is booked, you leave for N. Korea next Friday!  Good news is like the movie ground hog day, or 50 first dates, if you don't find the right solution the first time, give it an hour and you can try again.
Another strategy is ask what he wants to do when he gets back there, favourite places, visit old friends etc. No need to tell him they don't exist anymore but they enjoy reminiscencing.
His obsession sounds like a possible movie.  A long lost friend or lover. A favorite hilltop.  I would keep notes.
for sure! I think OP should too. I actually wrote a book about the adventures with my grandma during her battle with dementia. The stories you can uncover are fascinating.
Where can we find your book?
It's still going through the pre-publishing steps. Editing, and illustrations are complete, now it's being typeset (who knew there were so many steps between writing and publishing?!) I will pm you because I do not want to take away from the Op's post.
