Hello, dementia research scientist here. Sorry to hear about your Grandmother and Father.

I don't think that passing down Alzheimer's genes means earlier onset. As far as geneticists go,  usually genetics counselors will be against testing for AD genes (usually an APOE genotype for increased risk) for a few reasons.

1) Even if you have the high risk Alzheimer’s genotype (APOE E4), you wont necessarily get AD.

2) If you do get AD it will most likely be later in life, so you could be stressing about it for years when it may not even happen.

3) There is currently no cure, therapy or preventive measures  you can take to lessen the risk, so even armed with the knowledge, there is nothing you can do.

4) Knowing your genotype might effect your ability to get health/life insurance depending where in the world you live.
I know my husband was tested, and had the gene for Alzheimer's. At that time they still insisted he just had stress and depression. (His grandpa had dementia when he was older)
He was officially diagnosed with early onset dementia when he was 58. He is now 64 and has been on hospice 3.5 years.
Other commenters are correct. Knowing one way or the other won't help much. But, knowing that it is possible for you to have dementia in the future should propel you to make decisions wisely. Make sure you have a will, POA, etc. And live your life!
My mom had a different type of dementia (frontal temporal lobe) but it could be genetically linked 25% of the time.  I came close to getting tested (once there was confirmation that my mom carried the gene). My kids begged me to let it drop because they understand me well enough that if I knew I had the gene, I would probably obsess, thinking every time I forgot something, I'd get overly anxious.  Nobody considered the alternative. I can't rule out not having the gene,  so I still get overly anxious every time I have any kind of symptoms. In retrospect, I am no longer certain what I might have done if my kids hadn't felt so strongly.  But my mother's blood samples are long gone. Ironically,  my  dad developed Alzheimer's in his last few years.  I have adult ADHD and I'm prone to stress so for now,  my neurologist attributes my memory problems to the adhd/stress factors. And I try not to worry too much about a future I cannot control.
Knowing that you have a genetic risk for a disease where there is "currently no cure, therapy or preventive measures" allows a person to be better informed about  whether or not they want to have kids with the same problem, or cut the genetic  line.

 Bringing children into the world knowing that they and their children will be facing the same problem, generation after generation, seems to me pretty irresponsible. 

I'm not blaming you, OP, because you didn't know, but maybe suggest to your kids that before having any kids, genetic counseling might be in order.
Thank you for your response.
Thank you for the advice.
Thank you for sharing.
You could make that argument about cancer, the impact of pollution and a whole host of other issues that will impact future generations. Is it fair to bring new lives into our world knowing that 15% of male infants and 8% of female infants will die of cancer based on what we know today?

There's also the possibility that 60 years from now,  we'll have ways to overcome Alzheimer's or Cancer.  Genetic counseling is extremely helpful in evaluating a future family if the disease could impact a very young child. My husband and I were both tested for Tay Sachs Disease, a brutal illness that leads to death within 5 years of birth.  That was 30 year's ago and there was not much research being done at the time.  Now, there are a lot more reasons to be optimistic. 

I would be a lot less inclined to give up on a life that could be productive and happy because there is a chance that the child may develop  something  70 year's from now,  especially when there might be successful treatments in place by then.  I wouldn't call that irresponsible.  

Consulting a geneticist may give you an idea as to the probability of a condition or disease occurring but it's still just a gamble of sorts. Ultimately, the parents should arm themselves with as much info as they can,  and hope that whatever the outcome,  they will be prepared to support that child's needs.
Thank you for responding.
Right. We know so little about it that it’s hard to predict even w/ genetic testing. 

Disease seems so random- I got Bell’s palsy. For 9 out of 10 it’s temporary, but for 1/10 it is not. Thankfully, steroids relieved my condition. But My mom has it permanently, her only sister, and a girl cousin. Neurologists will tell you it’s caused by wind from an open window or a fan. WTH?! 

Gpa died of a tennis size glio- blastoma brain tumor. No one knows why or what triggered its growth. Point is- There’s still so little that we know.
