I had sort of the same issue. My wife has mental health issues and now they are looking into dementia. She has been in a mental health facility twice before. Long story she was let out on a trip home that was supposed to help her adapt to life at home. That was the second time she was released without a plan in place. 


She started going downhill about 6 weeks ago. With civic she wasn't getting any visits.  She was attacking me on more and more frequent basis. Up to 4 times a day. I called for help from the mental health crisis team. They advised calling the police. Her social worker advised the same. I didn't see how it would help. 

Bottom line I called the police and they got her to the hospital. From there she is in the process of being reassessed. The police officer told me it was the best thing to do. It forced the issue when noone else would/could help. As an American living here for the last 10 years.I had no idea how the process was....now I know.

Tldr: the police can speed up the process before anything bad happens.
Would it work to get both your grandparents assessed at the same time, its a routine thing the doctors do now type situation.
Have you given age UK a call? They are really useful in good practice with dealing with/getting these situations done! 

Also call your local memory assessment service and see if they can offer some help?
I would hope it starts the process of treatment. I hope it all works out for everyone involved.
Thank you so much for your reply,  I'm sorry for you and your wife's struggles. Did the police let her back home after they took her to the hospital?  I'm worried that he might be very angry with her after she calls them.
Unfortunately he refuses point blank. They tried this last time and he wouldn't entertain them at all. Thank you for taking the time to reply ! I appreciate it!
I didn't even think about age uk! That's a great idea thank you 🙂.
Thank you you too.
She was taken to A&E. Right now she is in a mental health facility on a 28 day section. She's been sectioned in the past. She has psychotic depression and cognitive issues. They are looking into dementia as they cognitive issues but, it's a complex diagnosis. They have looked into it in the past. They are now taking it seriously.
Unfortunately I think the suggestion to call the police might be the quickest course of action to get your grandparents the help they need. Would it work for a family member to sleep over a couple of night's a week? Several of you could rotate to cover most nights.
I work in mental health for NHSE and although dementia/alzheimer isn’t my workstream I would recommend googling where you are and then MAS (memory assessment service). It can be hard to get a diagnosis and they can help!
Ahh right that might buy us some time to get something sorted out for them hopefully. Thank you for answering my question I appreciate it must be difficult to talk about.
That would be a good idea but unfortunately not possible,  I'm hours away and just had a baby, my mum has health problems that would make me worried for her too if she were to be attacked. I wonder if I could get some type of alarm that would let me know to call the police for her? I am thinking that just going a head and calling them might be the best course and not even waiting until his next episode.
This is absolutely brilliant thank you so much!
I think calling the non-emergency number and talking all this through with the is a good idea, they might be able to offer info on emergency alarms for your grandmother.
When my mother insisted on living alone, but was obviously unsteady on stairways, we bargained with her to wear an alert button (in the US). This was a subscription service where the button communicated with a monitor box in the house. If she pressed the button, the monitor service would try to contact her and then dispatch emergency services. This might be something that would work for your gran. If she felt threatened or if she was injured, she could press the button (worn around her neck) and help would be on the way. Of course, at some point, it seems your grandfather will need assisted living or supervision of some sort. It is sad to see one persons ill health affect the health of other loved ones around them. Actually, when the health of the caregiver is affected, it is time for intervention, whether grandfather accepts it or not. This is especially worrisome if he is violent toward your gran.
Thank you that's a really good idea!
This is a good suggestion, thank you! I think she would do this. Unfortunately I think that everyone is worried about taking that next step. My Grans afraid and sad about what's happening,  my mum doesn't want to push her into a course of action but I'm sure that if we leave it something awful will happen. I hope their not too mad with me making a few calls tomorrow and getting the ball rolling but this inertia isn't helping anyone.
At a certain point the family also becomes the patient. It's time to take care of Gran.
Definitely!
