It is good that she is getting a thorough check up. There are physical conditions as well as mental health conditions that can mimic dementia. All the best to you.
I have watched my dad decline the last couple years and done some research trying to find something that helps. However he is mostly unwilling to try anything. That will be your first hurdle, getting her to be motivated to change. Its very scary to be facing this. It means admitting losing control of life and loss of mental faculties to an extent. And that very scary. Make sure she knows shes not aline in this.

Diet isimportant, sleep is important and exercise is important. IF it is something thats causing her to decline then you may be able to slow it significantly.  Watching my dad on most days just sit and stare at the TV which is off. Not doing anything mentally or physically all day I can understand why his mind is a mess. 

See if she is taking any meds correctly, check with her docs on her meds, could they be making something worse? need to find a way to get her exercising. Even if its just in her chair or gardening or taking a walk with you. need to engage her mind. The success of whatever she does isnt key, its the effort. There are aot of braingames and mind puzzles on Amazon tat will work her brain. Engage her in conversation where she has to think and remember.  Family history or her life story. 

I think what happens along with the natural physical and psychological degrading thats natural is we dont use our body and brain as we did when young. We live essentially dull lives that dont work either, which makes it hard to do both. But once you start you will respond to a degree and slowly build. But if you can keep her from just sitting and vegging like my dad, get her engaged, then hopefully that will help.
At an old job I had at a casino a man in his late 40s early 50s came in. He seemed OK but then he left large amounts of money ($3,000 or more) on slot machines walking away. The first thing he did when walking in was to get a large beer. 

Eventually he was confronted and later on I heard he was on medication that was affected by alcohol. The result was like instant Alzheimer's. 

So there is such a thing as being affected by medication and alcohol that looks like Alzheimer's disease. I'm not saying your mom is a drinker but if she takes medication and has started drinking or is drinking more due to depression it's one possibility.
It's completely possible that is depression. My dad had similar problems and a doctor friend recommended adding a therapist to the list of things we have him do, apparently in older folks, memory loss and confusion can be symptoms if depression
“What time is it” all fucking day with my dad 63 y/o
I am glad that she agreed to see a doctor. Try to take one day at a time. It could be a number of things and worrying will not change the outcome. The good news is that you’re seeking help & there is hope.  Try to press on, our current circumstances, including isolation, are difficult for many. Praying that you find workable solutions, conclusive answers & your mom gets better soon.
You did a great job getting your mom evaluated. 

I wish I had pushed my mom years ago. By the time she was finally evaluated the Alzheimer’s was moderate. They have drugs that can slow the progression.
Look into what you need to do in your state for medical and financial power of attorney, and sort out a plan for that with any siblings and with her, if possible. It's much easier to do while she is cooperative.
I really hope not because 55 is pretty early onset... My father was dx around 60 but looking back there were some other early signs 

This is pretty out there but I would look into ADHD. It’s now obvious to me that it is in my family members and it can cause memory issues. My partner was starting to worry I was getting dementia before getting an ADHD diagnosis in my 40s
Any chance she's diabetic and taking metformin? Low but B can cause this. Glad she's getting blood work done!!!
I absolutely want to get her exercising and eating better.  I think she'll be willing.  Right now she is just home all day starring at the TV or mindlessly scrolling her which like you mentioned will make a mess of your mind.
Shes most definitely depressed.  I think shes on a really low dose of zoloft.  Id much prefer she manage depression with a therapist and positive habits opposed to increase anti depressant meds
Find a community college 'Community Ed' exercise class. They are full of great seniors who support each other so much! Our local one is $38/semester. They are as much a social event as an exercise class! Hugs to you all.
Some people needs medicine, but if Zoloft isn't working please let her doctor know that s/he may want to try a new one.
