It did come back for me. It's been two years now since my Grandma passed. I can remember my life with her now, teaching me to cook and garden and paint and sew. Going on vacations together.

I think I had to grieve before I could remember the good times again, and grief sometimes isn't a linear process. It is kind of a defense mechanism, a focus on the here and now. But when it's over and you feel like you can open up again, the good memories may come flooding back. Please be kind to yourself.
Yes. I'm 40, my grandma passed in 2010 from alzheimers. She basically raised me, I spent the last two years of her life living with her, taking care of her. She didn't remember who I was, usually, but I'd explain that I was *her* daughter's daughter, and she'd be so happily surprised each time (aaaand now I'm crying). 

I'm struggling to find the words to describe how memories of her live in my mind, I've typed paragraphs then deleted them... but I guess the best way to say it is that I have my memories of the Alzheimers time, and the memories from the rest of my life with her before it, and I cherish them all, even though it's like memories of two completely different people? Maybe it's because enough time has passed that I'm able to reconcile that.

I don't think I really am answering your question, so I'll try - you'll remember all kinds of things. Sometimes, they'll fill you with sadness. Other times, you'll feel ALL the love and joy that you guys have shared over the years. A lot if times, it's both. 

Personally, I remember: her voice, her smell (pond's cream, windsong perfume for regular days, Chanel No. 5 for fancy times). I remember her passion for football. I remember her cooking - fried potatoes, beans & cornbread. Coconut layer cake with pink frosting. That awful "molded salad" (shredded veggies in unflavored jello - barf/lol). I remember her  keds sneakers & plaid shirts, how soft her hair was. I remember the way her eyes looked when she smiled.. her lipstick, Revlon sandalwood beige, and how she applied it - the tube would wear down flat instead of at an angle... I remember so much. You will, too.

I hope this helps. Hugs to you.
I was going to say something to this effect but you put it so much more eloquently than I could.  I just lost my mom to this disease in april. A lot more of the good memories are coming back now
I think I've blocked out alot of the memories of what my mom was like before Alzheimer's. It's too much to try and care for her while constantly remembering what she once was. It's comforting to know that this sort of thing has happened to someone else and memories have come back.
