Maybe set up a movie night for him? Get a movie ready to watch that you think he would enjoy pop some corn and pour him a beer and tell him you don’t want to see him I told it’s over.  Then you stay with grandpa entertaining him until the movie is over.  If you live in a separate house you can also switch homes with him a few nights a week.  I never slept deeply when I was caring for my husband and a night away provided deeper sleep.
I've felt the same way as your Dad since last year. You take care of someone so long and wish you could go somewhere but when you get the chance to go you end up staying home or coming home early.

 It really is like Groundhog day and it really beats a person down. If you could get him out somewhere outdoors he would probably enjoy it. My son invites me to come see him and the Grandkids, once I go I always enjoy it.
Hey u/MontanaKittenSighs \- it's a really difficult time to be a  caregiver. That is very kind of you to want to help your father find some time for himself. I like both ideas already listed in the comments but here are a few more:

1. Does he enjoy biking or running or any sort of exercise? Maybe getting him a gift that excites him about picking up his favorite exercise could be nice.
2. Has he ever shown any interest in specific hobbies like gardening, wood working, cooking, fixing up cars, fishing, photography, painting etc... ? If so, maybe you can help him pick up one of those hobbies again so he can have an hour or two escape each day to focus on them. I've found those sort of hobbies to be therapeutic and something to look forward to each day. 
3. Books can be such a simple but impactful escape to pass time and make each week feel different. Maybe you can read a really engrossing book with him. Check out goodreads for book recs in any category.  

Hope that is helpful, let us know how it goes and if any of these ideas cheer him up!
Not a bad thought! I think a movie night would lift his spirits. I’ll have to find something good to rent. Thank you!
