Humor. We are in a similar position (albeit a bit earlier in the dementia), and we experience the occasional paranoia.

Example: took our dog out for a walk, and was sitting on front steps checking IG while the dog went pee on the grass. While in my phone, I speak to the dog (as if she understood me), something like “good girl, all done girl? Hurry up so we can go home” and as soon as we’re done, I turn Around and my mom is there glaring thru the Storm door, saying “who are you talking to about me on the phone, huh?” And stomps away.

Totally out of the blue. I told her I was (some made up actor from her time, let’s say... Clint Eastwood) and asking for an autograph so I could sell it on eBay.

Obviously a ridiculous response, and it’s case by case basis. The humor is my crystal clear Lie, knowing she won’t take it seriously but atleast it helps me diffuse the annoyance and hurt from her constant paranoia and accusations. Obviously if she was someone more prone to believing anything told to her , I wouldn’t have said it, but it works for us bc otherwise, id tear my hair out
If you can inject humor, do so. Take it case by case. Don't be afraid to just apologize and move on.
"Why would I do that?" and then let them get snarled in the utter lack of reason.
My FIL has TIA and is in and out of tactile and visual hallucinations. He told me I was lying when I couldn’t see the jellyfish coming out of the trash and attaching to his head, and then not helping him. As days go by, he gets angrier and angrier at me for not helping. So I “help” get them off with a tissue and “flush it down the toilet.” He’s still mad, I’m still hunting invisible jellyfish. So yeah, agree with everyone above, humor.
I feel like humour isn't always the best route, I have worked with elderly patients. Humour does have its place though. Sometimes if the other person doesn't understand the humour it can escalate the situation. From what you have written, my approach would include being as clear and concise as possible. For example, stating "the doctors are not trying to kill you, they are here to help." Another example more related to her false accusations is to state, "___ (the name of your husband), did NOT hide the spoons." Keeping the statement clear and simply. I feel that it helps to remind elderly persons of facts help to orient them. Another benefit of this is that you will stay more sane and remember that doctors have not tried to kill her and that your husband did not steal the spoons. It is important to remain neutral and avoid escalating the situation more. This is just from experience of working with elderly patients with dementia. I'm not an expert. I hope this is helpful and relatable to you.
Curious about the answers. I’m helping take care of my grandpa with dementia who has accused my grandma and I of hitting him, has called me a bitch when I was trying to calm him down, and will tell people on the phone that we hit him. :(
They tell us in class that when you are dealing with Elder Rage, recalcitrant, defiant behavior to  (try and) remember that you are dealing NOT with the person but with:

1. A disease that is probably progressing.  Very common with neurological disorders.
2. A need to review current medication.  We either need more or less of something.
3. Someone at the end of a really $hitty life.  In other words, they were difficult to deal with even when they were young.

There may come a time when you have to consider assisted living.  Merely changing up the dynamics can lessen their anger.  No they don;t want to go.  We hear it all the time and yet, after a few weeks, they are thriving. 

I have one patient now who is almost there.  We are trying to get in touch with her estranged daughter now.
My team and I are building a product called [elovee](https://www.elovee.com/) that helps seniors living with dementia to overcome fixations such as this. We are currently looking to speak to family members that act as caregivers to such seniors and are offering a $25 Amazon giftcard to anyone willing to spend 30 minutes on the phone with us to learn about the leading behavioral therapy practices that can reduce such instances and provide us with some feedback on our product to ultimately help caregivers such as yourself. Please feel free to email me at [ishan@elovee.com](mailto:ishan@elovee.com) or sign up [here](https://ishan607427.typeform.com/to/OCkS573i) if you'd be willing to chat.
I hear you, I share the stories with my family so we can laugh about it. It seems horrible but it helps with perspective. When you tell a story about getting accused of listening in on telephone calls and someone laughs it helps you realize how ridiculous it is. Otherwise you start to think: maybe I did steal the spoons?!?!
I always fall into the deny trap, I get asked things like “did you take my spoons” my first response is “no I didnt” vs “why are you missing them?” Trying to get better at this.
When I’m completely caught off guard I do find the “why do you say that” helps to not only buy a little mental time for myself but can get to what the real reason is: ie: spoons aren’t stolen she just cant find them.
lol
thank you! yes! I had an incident this morning about how we are once again wiretapping and I just said plainly “no we are not wiretapping and thats all I’m going to say on the matter.” and left it at that. we were then able to change the conversation without escalating for once.
Ahah, I admit.. we take more spoons than we need from Wendy's because 1) they're strong plastics, and 2) good to travel with on a roadtrip
