I’ve gone through a few simulation experiences where you have to wear gloves with beads inside of them, with 2 fingers taped together on each hand, glasses that had clear nail polish on the lenses so it’s harder to see, shoes with stuff inside of them to try to emulate neuropathy that they may be feeling, and headphones in with random noises playing throughout , and then we were given tasks to complete (pour water from a pitcher into a glass, write a thank you note, fold dish cloths, etc.). That was very eye opening for me. They really didn’t go much into depth about consciousness part of it all, maybe because as you mentioned, everyone’s experience is different. My mom definitely had hallucinations, and would see things in the mirror. We just started covering up the mirror and that seemed to help.
I work in a care home and in some training once we had to be blindfolded and guided from one room to another by a member of staff. It felt so horrible because you feel powerless. It was easy to imagine what it would be like when you don’t understand what the person with you is saying or why they’re holding your arm.

I always remind myself and other staff that people with bad symptoms such as aggression don’t have a clue who we are and what we’re doing in their personal space.
I was in a terribly abusive relationship and that guy was REALLY good at gaslighting. Gaslighting is when someone causes you to doubt your own memories and to lose trust in your capabilities, in order to control you.

The instability that it caused shook me to my core and made me so sad and I felt so alone and stupid and ashamed of myself for being so utterly stupid and incapable.

Now that I've escaped and recovered, I remember who I am, believe in myself, and know what I know.

And I also remember feeling that way, and it was horrible and scary. I can only imagine that's a similar feeling. :(
Some of Teepa Snow’s DVD presentations don’t a good job of explaining that to caregivers. You can get them on Amazon. Attended a presentation she came to my city to do and it was really helpful.
I can't comment from a 1st person perspective, just my dads. We have to close blinds/curtains in late afternoon because he sees reflections as real, he can't understand theoreticals within a conversation, his perception of changing ground levels is horrid, he has no sense of hot/cold in food. Just a few of them.
For ages I've had the occasional bad dream about not being able to find something important and looking everywhere for it, racking my brain trying to remember where it might be- keys, a laptop, music, wallet, whatever. It dawned on me recently that my dad's lack of short term memory means he is living that dream- if his cognition decides to somehow focus on something, he's repeating that search that I do in my nightmares. That was a hard realization.
Look and see if virtual dementia tours are done in your area.. very eye opening and will give you a peek into dementia
Geez. Thats the kind of answer I was looking for, thank you for clarifying!
Sounds like a great excercise!
This is a very good analogy that I'll be using from now on. I'm sorry this happened to you, and it's such a horrible feeling to doubt yourself when you are sure of something.
I love Teepa Snow! When I first started caregiving I went through a bunch of them and learned a ton. Highly recommend her to anyone working with dementia patients.
You’re welcome, I’m glad that was helpful!
