I thought about it earlier, personally I would allow my wife to have someone else once I'm in that condition.
What a difficult situation and I am sorry. I cannot speak for the spouse situation, but as a daughter. My dad was diagnosed with MS and dementia at 59 and is quickly progressing downward. There will come a time when my Dad is taken of, but...not able to be partner. My greatest wish, even in this sucky situation, that my Mom would be able to find some bit happiness in any way possible, especially with a new partner, if that makes her happy. If anything, this disease shows us that we must pursue joy everyday and in everyway that we can. I wish you the best.
I work in a nursing home ward for young onset dementia. It is fairly common for people to find a new partner, also for residents. I think it has to do with the fact that at one point, the person with dementia has changed to a degree it isn't exactly who you've married anymore. In addition to that, your position in your relationship with your partner changes from being equal, to being a carer. 

So in my opinion, if you feel it's the right moment, then go for it!
I'm sorry.  This sounds awful for you.  You are allowed to continue to live and to have joy and love in your life.  Dementia kills our loved ones long before their bodies die.  It makes it hard.  I don't think you are doing anything wrong.  I'm not sure how your adult children will feel, though.
My dad is 71 my mom is 70. If my mom met someone new and started dating no one would fault her. My dad my be alive, but he’s long gone. Be happy and enjoy your life while you can. You know better than anyone how precious life is.
i would love for my wife to have a new life and enjoy herself.
I am so sorry for you. Shitty disease isnt it. I think it's good for you. I also think as long as the new person is aware at all times of the situation then its honest and open on all sides.
He is unable to participate in a relationship because of the disease.  I told my dad it was ok to have companionship when my mom was sick.
My mom is a widow and has dementia, so I understand how horrible the disease is, but I'm not in your situation as a spouse. I'm so sorry you are going through this, but please allow yourself to have some happiness with no guilt.
Thank you. I wish you the best also.
I agree with this. Your commitment still exists, but it's transforming. Your love for your husband still exists, and I don't think you should feel guilty for allowing that connection to transform as your husband does. As long as the new guy is supportive of your caretaking/connection with your husband, I say go for it.
Thank you. I think that my kids will be happy that I am going on with life. They know that I have taken good care of their dad for the last 5 years and how difficult it has been.
Thank you for the reassurance
Thank you.
i wish you the best of luck and you have done a great job and deserve a happy life. i am sure your husband would agree if he were 100% lucid :)
