I understand your situation OP.  Not through an app, but my person bought a car they couldn't afford, couldn't drive, and couldn't return.

It sucks so much but for the period where a tablet was an option, used an iPad with parental controls.  You set a passcode and any apps you choose cannot be accessed without said passcode.  Still not perfect if you want to leave access to a browser, and difficult when allowing access to smaller purchases (I.e. books, etc.)

This stage where you're inevitably the "bad guy" almost always really does suck and I'm sorry.
I don’t have a great suggestion, I have problems with my own mom and her iPhone, but try looking into a Kindle Fire. I do know there are child accounts that can be set up for the Fire. I don’t know how restrictive you can be with that tablet, but it might be easier for you to lock it down vs a device with an “i” in the name. Plus, the Fire is significantly cheaper than an iPad.
There's a MyCompanion tablet in the Netherlands that's meant to act like this.
I would try the kindle fire with the parental controls. You can still access lots of things, but it is simpler. Even highly functional patients will start having problems understanding the device at some point.

I wish you the best!
Look at the iOS school management system. You should be able to lock it down and see what she is doing. I had the opposite problem. Everytime someone came to visit they would screw with my dad's iPad. Eventually got him a MP3 player with a built-in speaker and a electronic picture frame. Also printed a bunch of photo books.
Grandpad was a huge RIP off. Research throughly before buying.  We stuck with a kindle fire with limited access.  Good luck
Thanks so much for the input.  I'll mess around with my iPad to see if I can work with that. - And thanks for the kind words.  It does suck.  Bigtime.
Yeah, she had a Kindle, and I spent some serious time trying to lock things down, but it was really wonky.  Thanks for the input!
Thanks.  Couldn't find it here in the US, but I'll keep looking for something similar
OK, thanks!  I'll take a look at that.
Thanks for the input.  I found the same with Jitterbug/ Great Call.  They're terrible.
Somebody made a comment about different tablets and I thought a little about it.  Not sure what the stage is but it may be frustrating/difficult to learn a new OS.  So whatever she's already super familiar with (iPhone, Android, whatever) I highly recommend you get the same thing!
