Been in similar situation.  It f sucks d balls so hard I am traumatized for  f life and I already had PSTD before that. The more i put my 10 cents worth into the mix with what i thought were sensible ideas the more angry my partner got.  If you have the means to get out of there with your child then make it plain to her that you're going to be doing that unless @\*\*\* goes into a home. My partner had a weird attachment to everything in the f house too. I  threw tons of the sht into a bin she and her husband had hoarded over 70 years, after she finally got sectioned. Christ. Won't be over untill she's 6 feet under, that's what I know. Visiting the old peoples loony bin isn't fun either because you're looking at the future if you're 'lucky' enough to live that long. Good luck.
I’m sorry to hear that you’re at your breaking point with your MIL. But if I could just offer some advice.... I’ve worked in skilled nursing facilities, mainly memory care units that are only dementia patients and I can say that it doesn’t get any better, BUT there are appropriate steps to take to ensure the safety of your family and to make your life better. I know it’s easy to become upset at the situation, but dementia is mental. They can not help the way that they are. You need to find a doctor that handles geriatric patients, only then will she start to receive the right medications. Tramadol is a pain killer, I’m not sure why her PCP has only put her on that. There are a number of anti-psychotics that can help her become less aggressive. 

I have to emphasize that even though she’s acting irrationally, it isn’t something she’s trying to do on purpose. She is sick. Please don’t become upset with her as it will only escalate the situation and cause more tension in a house that is already on edge. I would sit your wife down and explain to her that her mother isn’t getting the proper care or help that she needs regarding her condition. Not everyone is meant to take care of the elderly. It’s emotionally and physically exhausting. Your MIL really should be under the care of medical professionals. I hope things get better for you OP, again, I’m sorry you’re going through this.
Look into one of those posters you put on the door that makes it look like a shelf. She won’t put it in front of the door if there is no door?
If you put a black oval rug in front of the door, there are dementia patients who think it is a hole and won’t step on it.  That may help with this problem.
It's the dementia not the person, talk to a geriatrician about the situation there are many medications that may help her.
I just find it horrible that your MIL is putting you and your family in danger for some unusual reason. Why is she doing this? Is it out of habit or something specific? 

I saw that you tried in contacting her primary doctor, but is pretty useless. Try contacting the Alzheimer's Association and see if you can find some tips in how to calmly deescalate the situation with her.
I feel for ya buddy, thanks for the support.
Thanks for that. I needed to hear a lot of that.

The Tramadol was a typo, though she’s on that for pain I meant to say they upped her Trazodone.

I will take your advice and talk with my wife about seeing a specialist. I don’t want to be the person I have become living with her. It’s not fair to my family.
Unfortunately she’s not that bad yet, but that’s a good idea. Thanks!
Her doctor is useless. All he did was double her tramadol, no other meds or ideas. I think the problem is she was a bitch before the dementia, now she is stuck in bitch mode and the dementia removes the social filter so she’s saying everything she thinks.
She thinks she needs to block the door from intruders. We don’t live anyplace where that would ever be a problem, and she has never had a break-in or anything similar.
I’m glad I could offer some help, don’t hesitate to reach out! Good luck 👍🏻
It still might be worth it as she only does it at night. My dad is worse at night even though he has it together for the most part...
Family doctor or specialist?
Same old primary care doctor she’s had for ever.
You need to see a Geriatric Specialist to get useful medications.
