You need to get a caseworker assigned and visiting the home.
I'm not a professional, just going off my experience with my grandmother with dementia.
I'm assuming you mean help physically, like dressing properly for the weather or remembering where dishes are or the bathroom and such. This probably depends on a lot of things. Like why won't she accept help? Does she feel she doesn't need it because she's not sick yet? Does she feel you're getting in her space/messing with her belongings? Also can you even help her? Is she living in a nursing home where you can't visit, or in her own home you've been visiting to help her?
Depending on why she doesn't want help, you can try different things. If she thinks she's not sick enough, or at all, for help try asking her to do a favor for you. It's summer here so you could ask her "can you wear this tshirt instead of your winter coat (for me)?" Instead of "let me put this shirt on for you." Usually it works for my grandmother after asking a time or two (we have a language barrier though). If she feels you're in her space or trying to steal her stuff you might be able to ask her to help you with whatever you're doing. Otherwise you can try getting her to do an activity to distract her, although you'll need to do this before you go near her things.
I haven't dealt with any threats from my grandmother, not that I know of at least. So maybe what the other person said about a caseworker could be helpful.
I hope this helped a little, OP. It's a struggle dealing with dementia patients but we'll get through it
[deleted]
Thank you for encouragement and tips, it means a lot. 
Mom won't accept help for a number of reasons, good thing to analyze and clarify. She feels me and my sister has betrayed her, we handle her economy and she gets all kinds of ideas about it. For example, one day she thought we had been bribed by someone to get her money. 
Asking her for help might help, gonna try and see what happens. We have contacted my fathers doctor to see if she can meet them both because we are not certain that mom can take care of dad anymore. They live together at home.
So we'll try some of your tips and evaluate.
The easiest way, and how we got ours, is when they have to go to the hospital for something.  There are social workers that have to sign release forms - we told ours he couldn't care for himself and mom couldn't care for him alone.  That got the ball rolling on getting help.  Possibly call their doctor and ask for assistance - or do you have a help line available through your work?  Since your dad has been diagnosed, his doctor should be concerned that his caregiver is in need of help and possibly suicidal.  We also attended some local dementia meetings and the lady running the meetings had a lot of information.  You could also hire or consult with an eldercare lawyer for suggestions/help.
Elder Care Lawyers are the tits.
Great suggestions, thank you. I think his doctor is a good start, we are sort of worried that she might be hard on him.
