In the early stages, a person can appear to be normal.  For my sister (with FTD), the first signs were some mild forgetfulness and an inability to do math to simple logic problems.  But in social situations, she seemed completely normal.  People are usually good, even unconsciously, projecting normalcy even when something is going on.

Besides brain imaging, a memory clinic can conduct a series of tests to measure brain functions that you won't normally see in social interactions.  For my sister at least, these tests were instrumental in characterizing the disease and what her capabilities actually were.  It was surprising at how deficient she was in many areas because we couldn't see those deficits in normal conversation.

So I'd say it's possible.  But the "neutral third party" confirmation should not be you, but a neurologist.
I’d honestly be surprised that somebody with a confirmed diagnosis of FTD would not present with any symptoms for a sustained period of time. However, all forms of dementia can be unpredictable and allow for stable and unstable days and periods. Has your Dad had imaging such as CT or MRI to confirm diagnosis?
I am just going to offer something from my experience with my dad. I'm not saying it's true in this case, but it could be. My dad is REALLY good at hiding his dementia, he answers questions in a way that someone that wasn't used to it, would not think anything was wrong. Until I got used to noticing his facial expression, I would not realize he was confused or anything. A couple of examples, if someone he didn't remember visited and you asked if he remembered them, he would act all excited and say if course I do, that's my buddy. I never thought anything about it, but once I started noticing, I would ask their name and he wouldn't know. Another example, I had put out some frozen chili for his supper one time and when I video chatted with him on Alexa, I asked what he eat for supper and he said junk and I asked him why? He said he didn't know. So I asked why he didn't eat the chili I set out. He said he just didn't want it, then he walked into the kitchen and found the empty bowl and realized he had eaten it. I guess my point is don't be afraid to ask questions to make sure they aren't having cognitive issues and are just covering them up. 

The aggression thing I would be more leary of, unless she knows what buttons to push and is doing that. Like if she knows he gets anxious about a certain thing and is purposely trying to make him anxious which can turn to anger.
Hello, OP! My MIL was formally diagnosed with Behavior Variant Frontotemporal Dementia at age 65 but upon looking at her scan and the Tau protein accumulation in her brain, both her neurologist and gerontologist agreed that she is very likely to have dementia in her mid 50s. The symptoms are there at very early stage but it was masked by other things going on in her life which makes it difficult to pinpoint that it was dementia, specifically FTD.

A lot of people who heard the word dementia often associate it with being forgetful, absent minded, inability to perform daily living tasks/personal hygiene/upkeep of the house, etc. In FTD case I seen in my MIL, she was very capable of managing everything. She paid her bills on time, manage her finances, get her monthly beauty treatments/hair+nail appointments, pair up her clothes, cook for herself, clean the house just like normal, non-demented people do.

A few of the identifiable FTD markings we saw in her are apathy, inability to hide deep seated bigotry anymore, distorted reasonings with minor paranoia (I said minor because normal people will have fear of their home broken into from time to time), and sundowning.

Almost all of us (family and her close friends) thought MIL was undergoing stress, depression, or some form of mental illness in her late 40s up to early 50s after my FIL divorced her to remarry. My MIL cheated on my FIL with 5 different guys during the time when FIL is battling stage 2 prostate cancer after major stroke that left him paralyzed. The last straw was when MIL shoved FIL out of his wheelchair and start punching him when FIL told her that he knew she had become a village bicycle and told her to sign divorce papers that was already filed.

After the divorce, she moved to a different home and lived alone for a decade, everything seems “normal”. However, over the years MIL became increasingly apathetic and begin to show the world who she really is, a closet bigot and major racist. She hid her racism very well over the years and playing the polite white lady part well, but slowly she begin calling police on every person of color that walk on the public sidewalk in front of her house lying to police that she felt threatened.

Things begin to sound amiss when she called police and begin telling police the truth that she felt visually assaulted whenever she sees Blacks and Hispanics. MIL called police on a father and daughter because she feels visually assaulted by a person of color child because the baby was dark.

MIL also became increasingly chatty and have lack of social decorum. I suppose this part is a blessing for us because had my MIL not tell my SIL, we wouldn’t have known something was very wrong with her. She might be apathetic when it comes to considering how others must’ve felt through her actions but she is still very capable of socializing with her church friends at early stage of FTD. As her disease progresses, her friendship bridge burnt down but MIL don’t seem to mind or care.

The last straw was when MIL called police on her own elderly couple neighbor (whom are white) because she felt jealous that they celebrated their 50th wedding anniversary and invited her. The neighbor husband had terminal cancer so he got some marijuana to ease his pain and stimulate his appetite. My MIL, out of jealousy, called police and lied to the police that she found a marijuana growing base in her neighbor house. The police came with full arsenal and arrested the husband for possession when they can’t find any marijuana base.
Few weeks later, the husband died from cancer and my MIL called my SIL while giggling with glee and expressed joy that now the neighbor is technically divorced just like her. This is the last straw for my SIL so she dragged MIL to see gerontologist who immediately refer MIL to a neurologist.

I don’t know if my MIL case will be parallel to yours but I have found time and time again that sudden apathy, however minute might be a possibility of FTD that should be checked upon.
It's definitely a process. The early stage can last for years and can be really easy to not acknowledge. It also can change by environment and person. A patient can become both more attached to their partner and get more aggressive towards them. That's happening with my mother in law. Hates people being close to her and touching her, constantly tracks her husband but then hits him when he's close despite it being her pursuit. She'll hit my wife in her worst moments, and she'll never hit me. 

Get a PET scan. That's how they diagnosed my in law. Said it was clear a day
We are in the process of getting my Mom diagnosed. But we are leaning towards mixed dementia with one of them being behavioral variant FTD. She is paranoid and delusional. Is angry and aggressive with my Dad. She verbally and physically abuses him. 
But when I’m around (visiting for a week at a time), unless I really really push her buttons, I won’t see the aggression and abuse. 
No one outside the house believes us because she seem normal, other than some short term memory loss like not remembering that she just ordered something at a restaurant. But she drives, does grocery shopping, cooks, cleans and has the same personal hygiene routine. 

But we put some cameras up in the house and captured her rages. And that footage finally got people to help us. 

I can see in your situation that he’d be calm and not exhibiting symptoms because your presence isn’t triggering him.
Based on what we heard from his wife ( he is my father in law):
Brain athophy is not proven, they only found some gliosis. They are leaning towards FTD due to the all symptoms and behavior They cannot confirm FTD but think it’s it.
That’s why it’s weird for me..

I really really want to protect him to be misdiagnosed and be treated with an illness he does not have just because he is in more argumentative relationship..
Do you or your other half have power of attorney? I wonder if you should ask to attend appointments with them to be better involved or even ask for a telephone consultation with the diagnosing psychiatrist/neurologist. I think your concerns sound well founded.
