As horrible as it sounds, dementia is a decay of the brain. The cells and tissues actually die and cannot be replaced. When certain neurological structures are destroyed, the electrical signals in the brain that used to be normal tend to misfire and can cause seizures. I second speaking to her neurologist who can probably get her on medication to prevent the seizures and find out what's happening. Also, memory care is probably the best. She will certainly be confused for a bit but the staff is there to guide her and comfort her and hopefully they and the routine there will become a constant in her life.
I know that some Alzheimer's patients suffer from seizures.  I would strongly suggest that you take her to see a neurologist.  It sounds as if being in memory care would be the best thing for her at this point.  I advise you to tour whatever facilities are available to you and, if in the US, in your price range.  The care can vary wildly from facility to facility.  If you are set on bringing her home you will have to make certain that she has 24/7 supervision.
I thought I'd post an update. The doctors couldn't figure out what the issue was, but it isn't epilepsy. They think MIL didn't take the blood thinners. In any case, she has been diagnosed with advanced dementia and the seizures seem to have accelerated this illness. My MIL is moving into a care home on Tuesday. There's an all day "dementia family" program that she will take part in. My poor husband, her son, has to go on an international flight next week to empty out the apartment and help her transition.
Thank you. The doctors already put her on epilepsy drugs :-(
They did several CT scans and an EEG to rule out stroke. The brain imaging showed "dead zones". She is in very good hands at the moment.
Thank you. My MIL is in a very good neurological hospital who specializes in geriatrics. They even put a mat with an electric switch next to her bed that sends a signal to the nurses in case she gets up from her bed and steps on it! Fortunately it is also completely free as the hospital is in Europe. With Covid 19, the 24 hour caregivers who usually travel from Romania and Slovenia are barred from entry. There is currently a shortage of 24 hour care because of that.
