Can you distract her from actually going anywhere by saying, "Okay. We'll go home, but first...."

Have to get a shower, dressed, make the bed, etc. All those little things. One thing at a time.

The "therapeutic lie" is one that doesn't destroy her memories of the house, like it was torn down, but that you have no car, or gas to put in it, or a flat tire, or the road in front of the house or on the way is torn up. It depends on what she will accept. 

After many TLies, I always wanted to go crazy, like tell her the elephants got loose from the circus, but I was always afraid that she would insist on seeing the circus.
This wanting to go home is about the feeling of being home not about the building they are in. Look up Teepa Snow and Careblazers on YouTube, both will give you strategies on how to deal with this.
It is really hard to do, but try changing the subject or distracting her with something she might enjoy. It can be frightening when they insist on going somewhere and she might start "wandering" by leaving the home when no one is there. My mom's neighbor found my mom doing just that but she only made it to her driveway when he spotted her. Luckily he got her back inside. Shortly after this and a few other close calls we found a memory care facility. There comes a point when they cannot be left alone at all. She was so adamant about staying in her condo, but we all realized it was just too dangerous to leave her alone at all.

This is a very difficult disease because they no longer use logic or reason in their thought process.  When they are stuck on something they can be very stubborn too.

It may be time for your family to get more help from professionals in your area. Talking to her doctor may help you get started.
My mom has gone through this. We moved her from independent living into memory care in another facility last fall and for weeks (months, perhaps?) she talked about going home, and still does now and then. All I can tell her is that she's home where she is, and she has the ability so far to understand and accept it for brief amounts of time. It should get "better" with time -- it has for her.
My dad does this. My parents moved out of the country because my mom couldn’t handle everything out there and my dad. They moved about a year ago and my dad constantly wants to go home. But when she asks where his home is, he doesn’t know. He even tries to pack his things all the time. He gets clothes out and other random things. He also often thanks my mom for letting him stay there, like he doesn’t realize she’s his wife of 46 years. It’s heartbreaking.
What I read in the 365 Day book is they are saying they want to go back to when they were not sick. My wife used to say this but stopped. Distraction is the best advice.
Oddly enough, last summer she would always try to walk down there which is why the cameras got put in. But after a couple months she stopped and never really goes on walks anymore in general.
Makes sense! Thank you
