Check for UTIs. You'd be surprised what a regular cycle of meds can do for the diaper bill.
Check out adaptive clothing companies. You can buy a onesie that zippers in the back. That way she can’t get her clothes off on her own. It means you might have to get up to help her but at least you don’t have a mess to clean up!
We usually just stop giving liquids about two hours before bed time and that has greatly decreased the occurrence of accidents.
If she pees in the bed, you can buy material, by the yard, at a store that sells fabric.  It has a flannel feel on both sides but rubber in the middle.  You can have it cut to whatever size you want.  Buy several, then put one across the bed so the ends hang over.  That way, if one gets wet you just take it off, put a clean one down and you’re back in business.  They last forever and wash up great in the washer.
Have you already tried limiting her fluids in the evening? Would a well lit beside commode work or is she beyond being able to use one on her own? 

I hope you find some resolution... interrupted sleep is no fun.
Is she getting out of bed to do it or taking her depends off then going? My grandma used to do this (though she didn't wet the bed, just took the depends off). I'd suggest getting a mat or one of those "lifters" they use in the hospitals to lift and move patients who cannot do for themselves along with the pads they use in hospitals to lessen messing up sheets and the mattress. 

If she's getting up, can you get an alarm attached to the bed to notify you when she gets up? Then you can take her to the bathroom then. Limiting fluids is a great way along with checking for a UTI if this is new behavior.
Yea we stop usually about 2 hours but some nights I guess she just can’t hold it
I think at this point she’s beyond going herself. Sometimes at night we’ll get lucky and she had her wits and was able to do it
I never thought about to alarm to her bed. I’m just somewhat of a heavy sleeper so was thinking an alarm might be best. 

It really depends on the night. She’ll get out of bed and pee on the toilet seat or forget and do it in bed and take her underwear off
The only thing I can add is that we have to adhere to a pretty strict drinking, eating and bathroom schedule to keep it in check. Ex: 10:30 chocolate milk/ensure, bathroom, 11:00 brunch, carrot or orange juice, 12:00 bathroom, 1-3:00 nap, snack, water, bathroom, 5:00/6:00 dinner, juice or water, 9:00 bathroom, bed. 

The final adjustment that really helped was eliminating any kind of tea
I only know about the alarm because my grandma's roommate at her nursing home had one because she'd get up. If you wake up when she triggers it, you can take her to the bathroom and get her back to bed.
