Ontarian here - I don't have much to add so apologies in advance. My memory is that being put on the list (crisis or not) you still get to choose your top 5 placements. They do their best to accommodate your choices.
This is such a crappy position to be in - so much uncertainty and fear.
Best of luck to your family!
Speak with the LHIN & make sure you are clear about what the limitations are. Safety DOES have to come first, & you're at a crisis point where this may be in jeopardy but social well-being (ie/ being able to visit with your Loved One) IS an important factor as well. Ask for clarification from them. I would compile a list of questions before calling. I know this is scary & there should be MUCH more help with navigating the system.
So, I had experience with this starting Winter 2017 until Spring 2018 when we got a bed. 

What happened with us is that yes, it was the crisis list, but we got to choose locations. First, we chose our top 8. We numbered them in order of favourite, to least favourite. After a month or two of no movement, they asked us to add more options. So we added a few more. Then we did get the same push a few weeks later to add more. At the end of it all, from December til beginning of May, we probably had maybe 20-30 locations on our list. And got the one that was at the very top of our list.

So while we had some local spots and some further out, we ended up getting lucky. It really just is the luck of the draw. 

Also, related but not an answer to your question - do your research. The governments website has links to all reviews and audit inspections of homes and you want to know what you’re signing up for - and what homes to avoid.

Good luck!
Yeah its a tough one. They wanted to try and place her today after last night's events so its kind of sent everyone in a tail spin.
Oh thank you! Yeah I knew about the government website so we're in full research mode right now!
I feel for you. It's horrific when things get worse suddenly & everyone has to react under duress. How is she doing now? Is she in hospital?
My sister and I went full spreadsheet mode. Put ones that were definite no’s, yes’s and maybe’s. We were crazy! 

If you have any other questions, let me know! It feels like forever since that stage of everything, but I’ll do my best to help!
She was at hospital but they discharged her 🤦🏼‍♀️ but there is family up there that is looking after her and my grandad.

It’s just escalated really badly in the last 3 weeks
Oh I really appreciate that! You're an angel. 

I'm also in spreadsheet mode. We know where we'd like to see her end up and we have done virtual tours, a family friend who works in the space speaks highly of it, so its all the ancillary places now.
It’s a tough time period - I know we would’ve loved someone else to talk to while figuring it out.

It’s one of those bittersweet things where you’re like I know this is where she’s meant to go, but it’s so hard to let her go. 

We ended up at an Extendicare in Georgetown - and loved it. They were excellent, and I could see the love that some of the PSWs had for mum.
We're actually not too far out from Georgetown so that's good to know and there's an extendicare nearby here so that's positive.
Yeah - Extendicare Halton Hills. They’ve got some really great PSWs there - at least in the home area that mom was in. It’s got like five little home areas, named after areas in Halton Hills. I’d say I was a little unimpressed with them only at the very end, but it could’ve just been my emotions/the stress of what was happening at the end. Otherwise, much love to the PSWs, nurses, and recreation team there. (I could probably do without the admin staff).
Brilliant! Thanks for the advice :)
