Here's from a post of mine, couple years old.  Do #2 now, get a notary to travel to your home and do it on the porch or something.  Then get you BOTH long-term care insurance, that'll get her into the doctor's for evaluations.

**I  am going to be the bearer of bad news because it's easier to hear from  an anonymous source.  If you're feeling awful and depressed, STOP  READING NOW.  This is a hard thing to take in.  MAKE SURE YOU'RE OK  BEFORE CONTINUING.**

Dementia  is essentially untreatable, irreversible, is a horrible thing to live  through, and ends in death.  There are a few drugs out there, but most  of them don't do much and the side-effects are worse than their  benefits.  There are a few Human Drug/Treatment Trials going on, but  they're few, far between, you have to live near a hospital that offers  them, many times they don't work, and anything they do find is years  away from being available to the public.

The  sufferers and caregivers who do the best with this disease are those  who plan for the future.  They know what the next stage is and they've  already done the research and signed the papers.  The ***best prepaired*** progression is usually:

1. "impaired  cognition" noticed by family, usually in "help me find my car, I don't  remember where I parked it" situations.  Electronic GPS like a Tile can  help here.
2. POA/Healthcare POA signed by sufferer
3. Long-Term Care Health Insurance attained (ASAP, the longer you wait the more expensive it will be)
4. All financials nailed down (including a will/trust/etc), local laws researched.  A credit report can help find lost or unmonitored instruments.
5. DNR, "quality of living", death, corpse arrangements, burial arrangements discussed ahead of time
6. Shared home prepared for sufferer to live with caregiver (separate doors, ramps, extra rooms, extra baths, etc)
7. At this point a dysfunction in the family may be raising its head.  Whoever has stepped up to be the caregiver is usually the one to take the brunt of this additional friction.  Take a moment to set up mental healthcare for the caregiver... if it's not needed now, it probably will be later.
8. Patient diagnosed with dementia, usually "mild to moderate" stage
9. This is usually when their driving starts to suffer.  Taking away their keys usually provokes bad behavior, there is another option.  Go to your country/state's Department of Motor Vehicles site to submit their form for retesting an elder's capability to drive.
10. Medications to deal with side-effects prescribed, such as Sundowner's, violent tendencies, hallucinations, etc.
11. Medications  to help with actual Alzheimer's prescribed.  They are usually not very  effective, but are expensive and have serious side effects.  Some experimental treatments, such as specific forms of light therapy, are showing promise but these will not be available from HMOs for 7-10 years  from now.
12. Driver's License revoked, usually automatically after diagnosis & medication
13. Apply  to state/fed/insurance for any assistance, from financial to in-home.   This may take many tries and many years.  Talk to your hospitals' Elder Care Representative.
14. If sufferer is violent, hallucinating, or wanders, talk to local police so they can be prepared.
15. Get an electronic Tracker, bracelet, or other identifier for any wandering patient.
16. Around  this point a few sufferers take their own lives to spare their loved  ones from dealing with a body without a mind.  This is not common with Boomers and Silent Generations as they generally believe suicide to be a  sin, but we're seeing it become more and more common in patients who  are younger.
17. This  is the point where we used to institutionalize our elders.  It was very  common in the 70's and 80's and even 90's to put them in Care Homes.   Now we know that they decline MUCH faster when institutionalized, and  it's cheaper to keep them in the family home, where they get better  care.
18. In-home care becomes necessary during the day.  If the patient is diagnosed with another illness that is untreatable such as late-stage cancer, Hospice is an excellent service. 
19. 24/7  in-home care becomes necessary or the patient needs to be admitted to a  Memory Care Facility.  This is a locked ward where trained  professionals deal with hallucinations, violent tendencies, etc.  This  step is usually triggered by a tragic incident, such as patient  wandering and being found by authorities, patient harming caregiver,  patient injuring self, etc.  Memory Care Facilities are not cheap, they  can run between $2,000 - $10,000+ a month.  << this is where  caregivers with insufficient preparation or insufficient healthcare  access burn out... badly.
20. Patient loses memories entirely, needs help with every daily activity.  This is usually where a doctor issues a terminal diagnosis.  This diagnosis means that you'll be able to access Hospice, which is paid for by Medicaid.  Hospice's goal is to make the patient and family more comfortable. They have access to meds that normal healthcare do not, just to alleviate all pain and discomfort.  Some patients have Hospice assistance for a few weeks, some for years.
21. Patient loses ability to feed self
22. Patient loses ability to swallow

Please note that this progression can take months or decades.  I hope that anyone else can chime in if I've missed anything.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

From: [https://www.reddit.com/r/dementia/comments/a3ffho/wanted\_to\_introduce\_myself\_and\_share\_my\_situation/eb5upqw?utm\_source=share&utm\_medium=web2x](https://www.reddit.com/r/dementia/comments/a3ffho/wanted_to_introduce_myself_and_share_my_situation/eb5upqw?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)
Get to a neurologist who specializes in memory. Tell her it is a general doctor visit, then lunch. No big deal. Many clinical trials, aducanumab submitted, better symptomatic management.
As someone with a parent who has Alzheimers I have been under the microscope as well from my spouse. In my case she thought she saw AZ type issues and to be safe I was tested. A full battery, all day testing and the results came back I was perfectly fine. This has caused a rift in our relationship that has still not healed. 

There are many things that affect behavior and memory. Stress, lack of sleep, hormones, vitamin deficiencies, etc. I don't know specifics of your case but be very careful about jumping to the AZ conclusion.
I'm so sorry to hear what you're going through.   There are some good recommendations on posts already that are very practical.  I'd like to add (unfortunately learned from me not making the right decisions in the past) that it's very important to create a real and executable plan very early that helps you and your wife both be as happy and functional as long as possible throughout the journey.  This will mean making choices and changes very proactively, when it's very tempting to want to avoid the situation instead.  For example, if there's an underlying orthopedic issue that needs to be addressed, get it addressed now (otherwise there could years of unwarranted pain and/or the need for surgery for someone who is mentally not able to rehab).  As another example, getting in a routine of going often to an adult day care facility is radically easier for someone in an early stage and gives tremendous respite to their spouse/caregiver... if you wait for them to be in a later stage to introduce it, they will be scared and confused and the primary caregiver will already be exhausted.  Also, many activities (some even simple ones like watching the news) can become stressful and difficult over time, so having other things lined up proactively can greatly help limit boredom and anxiety.  In summary:  while it's tempting for everyone to avoid the diagnosis and dealing with it, proactively staying a step ahead will actually make life more functional.
I would add accessing hospice care in the late stages. In the U.S. hospice is paid for through Medicare. It is a great resource with skilled professionals. Most people don't access hospice until the final days. But all one needs is an end stage diagnosis. Some folks have been on hospice for over a year.  
  
I would also add one should be prepared for some family dysfunction. Caregiving and planning and managing finances is massive work and not all family members step up to help, and in fact may become obstructions to care. Guilt, jealousy, greed, blaming, abandonment can all show up at a time when support and care are required.
This is great.
You did a great job in explaining this ....Going through it now
Great post. You hit the nail on the head because I have been there. The only thing I would add is a will.
I understand, but even my wife has pretty much admitted that she’s in decline.
Thank you.
Good points, I'll add them right now.
Ah!  Yes, I'll add that right now.
Then I am very very sorry.
Add look for the important paper work like car titles. My wife does not remember where she put the title to her car.
Pull her credit report too.  You can track down a lot from a credit report.
