My MIL has it.  Mutual of Omaha.  I can honestly say that getting them to pay is like pulling teeth.  It's a part-time job just to administer it.  They pay up to $200 per day (in theory but I don't think we've ever collected the full amount) and it's capped at a lifetime total of $350,000.  Shop carefully and read the contracts.  Make certain you have someone you can trust to do all the paperwork for you.  They don't make it easy.
My mom had it too.  It was very expensive and didn’t pay anything until she was a resident 100 days.  It only then paid $65 a day when a room was $275.
Following this conversation. I'm also curious.
I too come from a dementia-prone family. When long term care insurance first became available, several relatives bought it but within a few years, the costs escalated and benefits dwindled so much that they dropped it. I fear the only solution is to save on your own (check out HSAs, Health Saving Accounts) and make sure you appoint someone you trust for your health care proxy (also called health care power of attorney, a person you designate to make medical decisions for you if/when you are unable to make them yourself.) Be very clear with that person about how much or how little medical intervention you want (e.g., comfort care only) if you are in the later stages of dementia. Put it in writing.
I have John Hancock. They pay every month like clockwork.
Thanks.  Ill lok into it.  Wow, that's a pretty low cap considering how much long term care costs sadly.  

God I hope healthcare overall including long term care gets fixed by the time I need it.  I'm really excited to hear Biden is actually planning to do something about it.  

I really hope the system isn't rigged so badly that trump ends up winning again.
Yeah, the other posters post gave me the impression it's not worth it too.  I'm still gonna look just in case but I'm leaning toward not getting it at this point.  

I saw another post in r/politics about Biden planning to include money for long term in-house care.  Sounded a little weak still but better than nothing.  It's a real problem that's got to be fixed in the US.
Thanks
LTC has little to do with the president. My mother's cap is 75/day so 200 isn't bad. I needed a lawyer to get them to pay, and indeed it's a hassle every month
It sounds like he is proposing to make it about him.  Hard to understand what he’s proposing tho.

https://homehealthcarenews.com/2020/07/biden-announces-775b-plan-to-boost-the-caregiver-economy-support-in-home-care-providers/
