All you can do is try.  I've had no success with any of my parents and cell phones.
My grandma can still manage to call my mum (all she has to do it press the 'a' button then the 'call' button. Half the time she calls and then denies that she did it and says she just answered her phone but at least she can still do it.
I definitely wouldn’t recommend it. Not because your mom can’t handle it, but because if she’s living in a memory unit, chances are it will go missing within days, either because another resident has wandered into her suite, or she wants to “keep it safe” and hide it somewhere that even the most seasoned of staff won’t be able to find!
My mom cannot handle new technology of any kind, and she never had a cell phone, so we are out of luck on that score. She frequently thinks that her cordless handset is the tv remote, then wonders why the tv doesn't work. (Sigh)
I don’t think there is any problem with the number being taped on the outside of her phone. I would also post the number somewhere in her room. When I worked in memory care and we had residents with phones, we could always try and call the number if the phone got lost. There was always a good chance it just got picked up by another resident and stashed in a pocket or dresser drawer in someone else’s room. Sometimes it would be lost for good and they’d have to get another one, but especially in a lockdown facility you know it’s GOT to be there somewhere.
Well, I just got home from visiting her and taking the new phone to her, and she just called me.

We had to have GreatCall set the phone up so as soon as she opens it (flip phone) it asks her to say the name of who she wants to call. her vision has *really* declined (Macular Degeneration).
I should have clarified: I wonder if it is safe to have her phone number in large print on the outside of the phone.

She has had a phone all along.  We just upgraded what she already had to a newer model with bigger, brighter display and now, voice dialing.  

six weeks and nothing has gone missing. it has her name in 3/8" print labels, as do all her belongings.  if it does go missing we will get her another.  She cannot lose her only contact with the outside world now.  she can no longer see enough to write or read letters from friends.
