I can’t imagine the stress you all must be living under, plus a lack of sleep.  Your Grandfather may have reached the stage in his life where he needs professional supervision.  If he is moved into a facility, he can be given medication to reduce his urges, they probably can’t be given at home.  You and your family would benefit greatly, of course.  You could go back to being family, instead of being his caretakers.  But he would also benefit.  Can you imagine what it must feel inside for him? How angry and confused he must be?  But without knowing why?  That must be torture.  And what if he keeps getting worse?

Talk to an Elder Care Attorney, they know all of the ins & outs of how to finance a facility stay.  They can work miracles on paper.  You can also start looking around to see what places you like the best.
Thank you for sharing...my dad is experiencing something similar...thinking my brother is out to kill him...so he sleeps with a kitchen knife next tohis bed.  He accuses my brother of being one of those middle aged men who just snap and kill their family...but it’s our dad we are worried about..it’s scarey...I Know...mum thinks he will come good...she doesn’t want to believe the man she has loved for 60 years is changing into someone who scares us.

tough, confusing, sad times indeed....no answers...just empathy

Best wishes to you and your family
If he's trying to murder you, he needs hospitalization.
Thank you for your kind words and help, he's definitely been struggling with this aswell - it's just a really horrible situation especially near the end of his life. 
We'll look into an Elder Care Attorney, hopefully that can help. Thank you again!
Thank you for your best wishes, I'm really sorry your going through this aswell please do stay strong! 
One thing I'll say is with us he escalated from threats to attacks very suddenly - he was so calm about it one second he was asking for help in the toilet the next he was attempting to choke my auntie - so please stay aware of him especially if he has access to a kitchen knife. 
Mentally it helped us knowing that it's not him but his mental illness that is causing this, understanding that could hopefully help your mother realise the dangers he may pose.

Best of luck to you and your family, I hope everything works out!
We were told the hospital didn't want him back and it makes sense not to have someone like that around a place with a bunch of vunerable people.
