Oof. Yeah, it's a tough thing to watch. It can make you feel really helpless. 

I wonder if your mom has any legal paperwork set up in case of her incapacity? Does she have a POA? I think many people, if they have a POA set up, do so with their lawyer when they create a will... If she has a will, could you perhaps reach out to the lawyer to inquire about a POA? 

I suggest this because, in my experience and anecdotally (I'll suggest a more experienced resource in a moment), all folks with dementia eventually need support, and you likely want to set up that support sooner than later. If you or your aunt (or someone) can act as your mom's attorney, you can get information from her doctor, you can manage her banking, and more as things progress. Without early support, it could mean waiting until your mom has an accident and/or is hospitalized before the social safety net wherever you live will try to step in and support her. 

If you aren't sure about her POA, I'd encourage you to reach out to the local chapter of the Alzheimer's Society. (There's that expert opinion.) They will likely be able to connect you with local resources, including those that will allow you (or someone) to gain some authority in your mom's life and her care before it becomes a matter of governmental intervention. (I think this is called conservatorship in the States?) They can also connect you with resources for your mom like in-home care, daycare programs, and activities for folks with dementia, as well as resources for you as a caregiver... 

I would strongly encourage you to take advantage of those resources. Caregiving is an important thing, but it can be hugely taxing. As my husband reminded me constantly while we were live-in caregiving for my mum, "don't set yourself on fire to keep others warm." Find your support system early. Lean on them and learn from them. You may feel alone, but so many people have been exactly where you are now. For me there was some comfort in that knowledge.


On that note: it can feel really awful to try and take someone's autonomy away from them. It can feel even worse when the person you're trying to wrestle authority from is a parent. It's even worse still when that person is combative and conspiratorial about anything or anyone who would question their independence or agency. You may feel like you *are* conspiring against her. And yet, I expect you'll want and need to position yourself as her ally. In my experience, doctors and nurses who are experienced in working with folks who have dementia can be your allies. Speak with them before they see your mom. Let them know that your mom is resistant. Let them be the "bad" guys and bearers of bad news. This way, you aren't the one reminding your mom that she has dementia, but the one who is gonna have a word with those doctors to see what's what. Or, at least, this is the strategy that I adopted with my mum, and it helped us through some really tough moments.

Sending you all kinds of internet-stranger strength. Best wishes.
I’m am currently experiencing a very similar experience.  My father is descending into the later stages of Alzheimer’s; even tough he has been diagnosed he continues to deny any disease process and blames his lack of memory on typical aging.

Along with memory issues he has developed severely compromised impulse modulation, think 3 year old will power and logic; in addition he has become delusional and has alienated anyone close to him because he’s convinced they are out to steal his fortune (of which there is none).  This combination of symptoms has made him increasingly agitated, combative, and oppositional.

The real kicker here is my stepmother has been his care giver for years now, dealing with finances, medication distribution, and the general logistics of everyday life. Recently she was diagnosed with stage IV metastatic cancer and the prognosis is terminal; he is in denial about this as well and claims she is simply suffering from a bone disorder.

Ultimately my wife and I will be responsible for handling his finances and caregiving, but with his paranoia and defiant attitude we are completely at a loss of how to move forward with the inevitability if his needing a long term care facility, there is no possibility of achieving this in a manner that he will accept and achieve a smooth and positive transition.

Just so completely frustrated at the prospects of the road ahead, don’t even know where to begin. /sigh
With little to offer in terms of help or advice, I just felt compelled to reply. My sister and I are walking through this with our mother who is 84. It's a terrible thing for everyone involved.
Great response! OP just want to let you know that denying dementia is very common. You will learn quickly that therapeutic lying is better than agitating your mom with logic and truth. As long as it is safe, just go along with your mom’s concept of the world around her. If it’s not safe, like trying to drive when she shouldn’t, you have to get creative like disconnecting the battery. 
Be prepared to throw logic and reason out the window. My MIL believes there are women on the moon right now, we wave to them often. When there are things she can’t do on her own, we blame it on her cataracts or her hip replacement. She’s bad enough that she can’t use the bathroom on her own, but tell her she has dementia and it’s world war 3.
