Personally, I would skip the PEG tube. He will probably still want to eat and drink even with it which puts him at the same risk for aspiration and pneumonia. All that it will really do is prolong things unnecessarily. The people providing the hospice care should be able to keep him as comfortable as possible until the end.
Consider how he would feel about it and give serious thought to how you yourself would want loved ones to deal with you. So sorry you are in this situation.
While my mom (early 70s, also dementia and other health issues) was recently hospitalized, she had a PEG tube placed. She is doing much better now in a skilled nursing rehab and will most likely have it removed before discharge, but I will be caring for her in my home and did a lot of research in preparation, specifically w the PEG.

With your father, the way the doctor spoke of the PEG option while discussing hospice care, makes me assume that it may be discouraged as it would indeed prolong the end of life care. This is where the personal decisions come in - would you and your family appreciate that prolonged time with him? Or would you prefer that they just make him as comfortable as possible w out the PEG and let his body take its natural course? (Questions for you to think about, not to answer on here!) I do honestly believe the nutrition mom received through the PEG is what led to her recovery and has made her the healthiest she’s been in over a decade (including more mental clarity). Anyway, point being that the special liquid food given through the tubes is full of all the vitamins and nutrition needed. 

I’m really sorry for what you are going through. It hurts my heart that your dad thinks it’s too much work to keep him alive. Your obviously a good son because you are handling this, so my best suggestion (without knowing his full situation), is to follow your gut. Doctors suggest things, but they’re simply just that - suggestions. 

And lastly, the dementia always makes each situation ten times worse. He may be feeling guilty for troubling you with his medical problems, but I feel like if he’s aware enough to feel that at times, it may be worth placing the PEG to see if it helps him improve mentally/emotionally, if nothing else. 
Best wishes to you.
My Father also had swallowing problems and Alzheimer’s.  He failed the swallow test and put in a PEG.  He pulled it out.  That was the end of that.  It depends on your Dads stage of dementia, but Something to keep in mind.
And if you do skip the PEG tube, ask his doctor for a referral for hospice. They will help you through what is coming. You dad sounds like he has much more than dementia going on. You will need the nursing, social work, personal care and spiritual care hospice provides. (Retired hospice Rn here)

Good luck and God bless.
Thanks, that's very helpful! Glad to hear your mom is doing better!
