Well.. It might actually be early signs as you fear. It does run in families. My dad and all 4 of his siblings have/had dementia. 

The best thing would be to get her checked out, sooner than later, in case its *not* Alzheimer's, but something treatable/reversible/something that can be stopped. 

Good luck.
Reduce the stress! Easier said than done. Is she getting enough sleep? 7 to 8 hours? For some music relaxes them. Others need hobbies to divert attention from the stress.
Get her checked out! That is definitely not normal forgetfulness.
As someone who's father has recently been diagnosed, definitely get her checked.
So sorry!  Forgetting buying writing and sending a birthday card, and a phone call of few hours previous - sorry, no, it's not really "normal" oldies  "forgetfulness".  Sure, very stressful with her sister, and yr grandpa in hospital and virus n all... Sometimes also dehydration, lack of sleep, and urinary tract infections can bring on extra forgetfulness.  She ought to get checked by doctor asap - it could be progressing through "early signs" stage already - if so, the sooner the better to start dementia medication, if that will be appropriate for her.  You ought to contact your area Dementia / Alzheimers organisation, they have lot of helpful support.  If she might be sensitive / uncooperative to go docs for memory check, My mom (87, Alzhms diagnosis yrs ago already)  it's always been easier to get her to the doctors when I say "oh, I have to go see the doctor for something (my sore shoulder/odd tummy ache/whatever), you may as well come too, probably time for a checkup isn't it".  I book 2 appointments, I go in first and tell the doc "she's had a sore leg although she will adamantly claim she could walk to kingdom come and back, so please just check it out". You/ yr mom/dad ought to tell the doc your concerns about her memory - that's not against patient confidentiality -- only the following diagnosis etc is confidential.  Of course many people are often a bit scared to get doc to check if they have dementia, will put it off, will want to be in denial. It's scary.  Talk with dementia org.  best of luck!
I’d 100% get her checked out. Sadly this could be an early sign or just stress, and it’s hard to know just over a phone call. Better safe than sorry, if you get her checked and it DOES appear to be early signs, you can slow the progression much easier that way. Good luck!
She has always been a “go go go” woman. She’s constantly cleaning or doing something even when that thing doesn’t have to be done. We have been telling her to relax for yeeeaaars but she doesn’t budge. So like you said, that might be easier said than done. My grandpa is recovering from a surgery that didn’t go so well but he should be back home soon. That might help.
I wouldn’t call it an “early” sign, just a sign.  Get her to the doc and let them give her the cognitive test.  Also check for urinary tract infection which can cause confusion.  Good luck.
