Hi, i am a nurse who has been working on dementia units for entire career. Have I seen similar sitiations recover? I will answer that honestly, yes. However, as you obviously recognize it will be more than challenging if he does contract covid.

If i can offer any hope , i just witnessed a covid out break on a dementia unit and thought surely it would be like setting a house on fire ( due to previous conditions and the difficulty in isolating those with dementia ) and at the end of the day, 5 out of 38 tested positive, and only one passed. This was due to action on the nurse's ends , management having a plan in place etc.

I can't imagine how frightened you are right now, and it's valid. Please feel free to pm me at any point with any questions that i will try my best to answer or even if you just need support . ❤
My grandma tested positve in hospital (non covid-19 reasons but covid-19 was on the ward) 3 weeks ago and then negative a week later. She's back in her care home and hasn't had a single symptom. She's 91.
Thank you that makes me feel better. My dad is a fighter and I have to laugh because despite his health issues he always seems to make it through. I just picture him telling me it was like a bad cold and people are making a big deal of it...lord I hope that’s what happens. But he also may not have it which is what I’m hoping for.
My mom went into the nursing home on Mother's Day. They have been on lockdown since day 1. Three weeks ago she and 40 other residents tested positive along with 20 employees.  She did her 2 weeks on the Covid wing and never showed any symptoms, thankfully.
Those conditions are hard enough to deal with at the best of times, without dealing with a pandemic too.  Wishing all the best for you and your dad, hope the stress and worry is over soon and he gets a negative result back as soon as possible.
I'm seeing a lot of good endings posted here and sincerely hope those will apply to you. However, I would advice to brace for the worst. 

In the nursing home I work we've had a resident for nearly six years, and another one not even a week before passing. The average time spent in the dementia ward here is 9 months, due to long waitinglists: residents are already pretty far into the disease before they come here. They are in their final phase and often one bad UTI, fall or healthcrisis(heart, brain, lungs, infection, virus) away from death. And due to their disease, I'd even say that this is preferable over waiting it out. 

I wish your dad the best, and I hope you all can stay safe.
Have you heard the saying 'Pneumonia is the old persons friend' ?
Not in nursing home but mom and I live together. My mother is positive after being exposed about 10 days ago by her caregiver who was going to church services. Mom is 88 and I am terrified for her. The dr said usually the 8-12 days are the worst it seems and she’s better off at home unless her breathing gets bad. She’s actually better than last week but I know that can change in a heartbeat. She doesn’t even know she has it, just feels bad. I woke up with a fever of 101 and have had the worst migraine for 3days. I think I’m a week behind her ....I live with her and was out of town for one week during which time she got exposed. Caregiver only got her test back a few days ago so we didn’t know she was sick. Also the caregiver had no symptoms other than sinus issues. When she called and told me she was having sinus stuff I told her to stay away from mom and get tested. I had no idea she was attending church services and only found out yesterday and that her church is filled with cases. I am hopeful since I hear there are many elderly that get through it just fine. So terrified because it’s just me and her.
That sounds like a great solution. Thank you for your kind words!
That is reassuring - thank you!
No but I understand the meaning. My uncle said something similar about covid. We have to go sometime. I just hate the thought of it! My dad is a DNR. Actually yesterday he refused to be tested for Covid. He’s a pistol that’s for sure and knows what he wants.
That’s so frustrating about your caregiver! I pray you both make it through. My dad refused to get tested so we are just waiting to see if he develops symptoms. He’s very stubborn and also thinks the virus isn’t real...
I know, love. It's very difficult. It's normal to fight until we can't
Oh no, I’m sorry love. I just ordered the home kit from Pixel by Labcorp. They run it through your insurance and I got the kit within 2 days. They give you the fedex return so you can just drop it in the Dropbox. They got it next day and 2 days later I git the result. I figured I could test her this way so she wouldn’t be upset. I just said it was to see if she had a virus. The small swab only goes up enough that the entire white of it is in their nose so it’s not as invasive as some of them. Will be thinking of you and your family❤️
