As someone who's been bodily tossed into a fridge and thrown into a bathtub along with dodging a few screwdrivers and a knife, I'm all for you leaving. When others refuse to see how bad the sufferer is, they need an eye opener like a loss of help so they have to face it themselves. Doesn't matter how they're related to you, it's time for them to shape up.

It's definitely the dementia but so hard to see beyond the mask of the person it's wearing. I've yet to get to the point where I can separate my Dad from The Thing that tried to kill me on a regular basis for three months this past winter. One thing's for sure, we'll not be getting our damage deposit back. Sending hugs.
It's so hard not to take it personally, but it's definitely the disease and not her. I'm glad you're getting out, and I hope your grandmother gets the care she needs. Be well!
My grandma was a very difficult person before she became ill. It can be so hard on her bad days to cope with her bad moods, but I try my best to remember that she is distressed more so than angry. I find her behavior puzzling very often but have stopped taking it personal. It’s so clear from how poor her memory is that her brain is not working properly at all, & she’s trying to cope with this change the best she can.

I’m so sorry you were in danger and I hope you and your mom can work together to find a solution that works for everyone. You deserve your health & safety, too!
Call Adult Protective Services and start court proceeding to have her be a state ward.

My MIL with BvFTD broke my leg by pushing me down the stairs, gave me a black eye, and pull my hair. She also sexually assaulted my son. This was few month after she stabbed my SIL with serrated knife in the arm.

The court ruled to put my MIL in psychiatric institution for criminally insane after she gouged an eye of meter maid. Whole eye ball pop out and she (the meter maid) is permanently blind. The home care nurse we hired suffered permanent brain damage from her head being pummeled non stop by my MIL in her demented rage.

If you don’t want your grandma to share space with the criminally insane, I suggest call Adult Protective Services.

Also, install camera in the house so there will be proof for Social Workers and APS and the judge to rule for your safety.

Edited to add: Check if she has Urinary Tract Infection as well to double check if her aggression is triggered by discomfort or she’s a candidate for institutionalization like my MIL
I think some folks focus too much on the disease being no fault of the inflicted. Everything revolves around someone as mad as a swan and your life is turned to shit to please someone that can never be pleased. I've noticed that one of the first indicators of the disease is the inability to even think to ask how anyone else is doing or what their feelings are. Yeah, it is a disease and they can't help it, but then can a psychopath help doing harm to others ? I hope your mum sees reason this time. It's her that can stop this behaviour by putting her mum into care.. Your grandmother certainly can't.
Im so sorry this happened to you. I work with specifically dementia patients who have regressed to the point beyond reasoning or pose a threat to others, and this is all too common. All i can give as advice, which may or may not work it really depends on the person, is try to find a distraction a quickly or a med change. But in all honesty your safety comes first, you need to be able to take care of yourself to take care of others. If its too much walk away, if your grandmother was in her right mind im sure shed be horrified at her own actions. Sadly this is a degenerative disease and when it gets to the point where you nor your family can care for them its best to get outside help. Please take good care of yourself, its okay to walk away when it comes to your safety. I know this isnt much help but i wish you and your family the best of luck with this difficult disease.
Damn what type of hair cream?
I was just talking to care homes today as our doctor warned us a few weeks ago that he may eventually need to go to one. I've found a lot of places won't take care of a violent patient, so on top of telling your mom to find a home for her, you may also want to find someone a neurologist to find the right medications to calm the violent episodes.

My dad has been violent in the past, and since Covid started, he was getting really agitated and violent, even palming my brother hard in the chest and nearly knocking him over (he's still strong at almost 90!) We've been working with his neurologist on different medications and dosing, and found a balance that keeps his anxiousness and agitation down while not just making him a walking zombie. The home I spoke with today said they are willing to work with us if he gets violent again.

I'm really sorry this happened to you. My dad has never been violent with me but there's been moments where he clenched his fist and looked like he wanted to punch me out. It's terrifying what this disease does to your loved ones.
I've never heard it said that way...., "It's definitely the dementia but so hard to see beyond the mask of the person it's wearing." I felt this way so many times when my mom had Alz but could never quite understand what I was feeling much less put into words. Beautifully put. Thank you
I’ll try to be. I’m just still shaken at the thought that if I hadn’t been quick enough i could be lying in a pool of my own blood. My sisters told me that “i just don’t understand her” and I’m just “not loving her enough”. I confiscated the cream *because* i care about her health and *she* attacked me. Nobody is just listening to me and i want to just be gone...
Thank you❤️
Dude this really ain’t it. A psychopath still knows what they are doing is wrong. They can stop themselves. They usually will just openly say they harmed people because they enjoyed it and it was planned. Dementia is more a kid emptying an entire thing of fish food into the bowl and seeing no problem with it and not realizing that’s why the fish died. The difference is, a child can learn and grasp new concepts. Their brain is growing and evolving. The mind of someone with dementia is degrading and fading away bit by bit. A practical saint can do terrible things they’d have never done before their disease.
Dementia kills people, though...while psychopathy doesn’t. That’s quite a stigmatizing, unhelpful comparison. And “mad as a swan” is really ableist language. 

Caregivers always deserve to be safe and supported, by all means, but dementia isn’t anyone’s choice to experience. It’s not something people can turn on and off, sadly.
Cantu Argan Oil 💀
My grandmother is still so strong aswell 😂😭 I truly understand you and I’m sending thoughts and prayers ❤️
Your sisters need to step up and take your place if that's how they feel. It's 100% no fair to judge from afar and I'm so sorry they aren't hearing you. For many families, the moment a loved one becomes dangerous is the moment that they are moved into care. It is scary as heck, and I'm so glad you're ok.

I have no idea if this will help you, so apologies in advance if I'm accidentally heaping more frustration your way, but in case you end up in a similar situation where you need to get something out of your grandmother's hands... Have you tried a swaperoo? My mum often was mollified by a swap when I had to take something dangerous away from her... "Oh mum! I forgot to tell you that I saw this new kind of lighter at the store! It makes a flame that's twice as big, is better for the environment, and is dog proof so our pooch won't get hurt if he bites it! Isn't that cool? Here, I see you're playing with your lighter right now, would you like to try this new extra fancy one instead?" *hands her a small stack of lego bricks and confiscates the actual lighter she somehow found.
What I'm trying to say is that children should come first in every case.  When someone becomes violent for whatever reason they need to be put into a facility where they can't hurt anyone. The mother in this case should be protecting and prioritizing her children foremost and not a person at the end of life who is a danger to the family. My analogy wasn't helpful I agree. I am angry at seeing a situation where children are put at risk.
Children should be put first. Any mother that puts the needs of someone who is dangerous, for whatever reason that might be isn't functioning in a sane or rational manner.
Thank u for the advice I’ll try the swaperoo
Oh that I absolutely agree with.
According to OP’s previous post they aren’t a minor. Nobody is saying they don’t deserve to be safe. But people with dementia aren’t necessarily inherently dangerous. OP’s mother is responsible for her own mother’s safety and that doesn’t change based on her behavior. Nobody knows exactly which changes their loved one will go through with dementia.
