So sorry!  It seems very early, for yr mom - perhaps other things are stressing her out, idk.  I'm not a doctor or memory loss specialist.  My mom has had alzhms/dementia diagnosis for years already, now she's 87.   I guess home quizzes are not really great for these memory loss things, it probably wouldn't convince your mom anyways.  It's probably better knowing than not (although obviously upsetting, to know).  Generally, I think, for many types of dementia/alzheimers, there are medications that the sooner one starts them, the better chance of successfully staving it off for longer.  When my mom got diagnosis, we went to the Alzheimers/Dementia organisation, they have many resources, information, carer training & info courses for people with memory loss disorders.  I suggest you contact your regions organisation, they'll be able to give you info & suggestions for help; and, obviously,  go discuss your concerns with your doctor.  You need professional advice.  best of luck!
Many correctable things cause dementia symptoms like a B12 or vitamin D deficiency. There could be a thyroid problem as well. It sounds like she needs a physical and blood work up.
Good luck. Please update us with what happens and what the treatment outcome is. I have a mother in a similar situation and I am interested in finding the correct treatment path for her situation.
Thank you for replying. Today she thought she had given me the charger for iPad and got pretty defensive about it when I calmly said she didn't. Then we opened the drawer it was still there as she left it in the morning. She got scared and I think she finally realised something. We agreed she would go to a doctor.
God I hope so.
Thank you. I'll update next week.
Drag her to a lawyer NOW and get her to make out a will, power of attorney and medical directives before she’s no longer compete to sign anything. We failed to do this with my mother and ended up having to go to court to get legal guardianship so we could manage her affairs.
That is a great point, yes, very necessary - just in case.  So sorry for you, AMerrickanGirl, that must have been awful.  Same with us, when we got diagnosis. RAN to lawyers.  Mum's GP doctor & the specialist also, provided us with letters stating something along the lines of "whilst Mrs xyz does have memory loss issues, we believe she is still in sound mind enough to fully comprehend what she is determining regarding these matters".  (((We had to, due to the fact one of my siblings has significant mental health issues (of a nasty horrid selfish kind) and generally makes trouble about everything.)))   Mum had a will, but not POA & POG (POG is Powers of Guardianship - like a medical directive I guess).   Zero2, thank goodness yr mom is onboard with it!  Perhaps it is something else, not early onset - either way, best of luck!!
Thanks for your answer it's real good advice. But I looked into it and it involves a lot of burocracy and government red tape to do this without a doctor's note and because of Covid it's even harder. I don't want to rush into this until we know for certain.
Thanks for your support, I'll update next week. today she told me she propably doesn't have it and didn't seem committed to know because we found out state hospitals are mostly closed in my country because of Covid and the lines are huge. So we have to go to a private hospital which costs money. She says she will talk with her doctor friends for specialist recommendation on Friday. If she doesn't I'll definitely book an appointment myself and make her go. She doesn't have many relatives and I study abroad so Its really important to know and plan our lives accordingly
Even if there wasn’t a question of her memory, these things should be done with elderly parents way ahead of time. If she voluntarily agrees to sign the documents you shouldn’t need a doctor’s note.
Yeh, my mum also few relatives - divorced (my dad, lives 1,000's kms away) she has no siblings, one cousin don't even know where.. My sister is zero help, in fact just causes terrible troubles & problems, so everything falls on me. I was living & working overseas for many years, had to come back & care for her or put her in a geriatric facility. :(   Yes, either way, make sure your mother has done those powers of attorney & guardianship / medical / social care, for if/when the person loses mental capacity for themselves. Generally, you wouldn't want your govt departments to take over and make all those decisions for her.  good luck!
