I think, speak with her doctor, and with Alzheimers / Dementia UK Org.  I don't know but I guess they wouldn't change her medication - alzhms people, they do deteriorate. They have some days better, some days more confused & stressed out.  Yes, possibly your reminding her about mask, and probably tv/newspapers caused her alarm.  It can't be helped.  This year with virus, many people more confused.  My mum (we are in Australia) is 87, diagnosis years ago already, this past 5 months have been difficult.  I downloaded coloured but simple *picture* information sheets & printed them out A4 size, to leave on her kitchen table, about virus.  eg  "wash hands & social distance"  "stay home stay safe" etc.   Alzheimers & Dementia org here have lot of information for family members & carers for people, it's good if you call them & check their resources & help-line.  Your mum should probably have health check-up every 6 months anyway... Maybe soon time in UK to get this years influenza shot too, I don't know -- go see doctor.  good luck!
Sorry to hear you're going through this. The lesson I learned with dementia is you should do what you feel is right and gives you peace of mind.

First, speak to her doctor. As you say, it can go either way and there's no harm in ringing them, especially if she's due a routine visit with the psychiatrist. They may choose to leave the meds as they are, but at least you won't be wondering. Dehydration can make her symptoms worse temporarily as well, especially in this hot weather. So speak to her GP as well - my dad's GP practice could visit him at home and do blood tests etc to monitor him.

Second, if it seems like she's deteriorated (temporary or new normal), have you considered speaking to her care team to consider your options? For example, you can increase the number of daily care visits to check on her welfare. They may just prompt her to drink some water because it's hot outside, simple things like that. Because of the pandemic, she should probably be sheltering too, so it might be helpful to get carers to help her with a weekly grocery shop. This is never ideal and you will feel that you are taking away some of her freedoms, but sadly she may need the help, and again this will help with your peace of mind. Does she also receive an attendance allowance to help with care costs?

Do you also have lasting power of attorney (LPA) to help her manage her finances and wellbeing? If not, you can apply to the Court of Protection (COP). Once your have LPA/COP for her finances, you'll be able to help her pay her bills, so that might be one less thing to worry about. We also confiscated my dad's bank cards because he kept losing them, and gave him a weekly 'allowance' of cash instead. Since we were paying his bills and helping with groceries, the cash was more for emergencies and was a comfort to him rather than a real allowance.

There's probably other things that you can think about, but that depends on what support you already have etc.
In our case my mom's general practitioner didn't seem to have much experience with seniors. We started with getting a home health care nurse stop by once or twice a week to fill her pills into the dispenser I got her. It's a pretty cool contraption, it's round with several compartments. You set timers on it and it will rotate the opening to reveal the required meds at the required time and then will beep annoyingly until the unit is tipped to dump out the pills. The home health nurse was a godsend - she recommended finding mom a psychiatrist that would know more about pharmaceutical options.  At the time mom had gone off the rails suddenly and was paranoid, depressed, angry, crying all the time. The psychiatrist got mom back on track - not cured but at least not in such a fearful, angry, sad state.  You may want to see if there is anyone in your area that has more experience with Alzheimers/dementia.
Thank you for your comments and experiences.  Its strange seeing her in her own world, but its all real for her. Can happen to us all I suppose
Thanks, its difficult as I know its progressive, its hard to know when doctors take action, I suppose when she has an accident or bes unable to cope herself
  I'll try the organisation u signposted me to, thank you very much best of ljck with your own mother too.
