When I worked retail,  I called them "time moochers". It's like,  if they have a forced audience,  they just gobble it up. Young,  old; i think they're lonely or lacking social skills.
Former vet tech here - almost every practice has these types of clients. I have distinct memories of approximately 9 different ones at our practice.  I've had to do all the things described by that man at one point or another/have also been on the front desk team trying to just answer phones and do my job.

What you're describing is kind of the classic stressed owner response for that subset of client. One that lashes out and just wants to talk/blame (no matter how inappropriately) about their woes to ANYONE to mask real concern. Often these clients were single older men. 

My guess? This guy went to another vet with an animal who is very ill or who has a very complicated health problem which requires A) lots of expensive care B) extensive diagnostics or C) Both. And presumably that care cannot be delayed or death is a distinct possibility. He got sticker shock when presented with the diagnostic plan, possibly couldn't afford to pay for it and wasn't "allowed" to make a payment plan/didn't qualify for something like CareCredit.  

And he's scared that A) his cat might not make it and B) if he does make it he won't be able to pay the bill/afford long term care and will be booted from the practice and left to watch this animal suffer. I've heard these concerns expressed when vets rush through explaining things and the client is blindsided/doesn't understand all the options being presented to them. Sometimes it goes well to break it down again for them in laymen terms...sometimes they just hear cost and the conversation is over. Not that these clients will ever articulate that out loud.  

Ultimately the real worry often boils down to them thinking that they possibly had some hand in allowing it to get this bad and that the vet won't be able to do anything. Sometimes...that is the truth but not always.

It's definitely a part of the animal ownership world that a lot of people don't see/consider. Frankly it's sometimes hard to have compassion for the human side of the human animal bond.

I hope that your kitty is getting good care for whatever their issue is...it's stressful to see our furry family suffer under any circumstances.
This is a sad thing indeed. It sounds like a combination of loneliness and some sort of disability. Whether that disability is dementia or Alzheimer's is hard to say by one interaction. The loudness and repetitiveness can be an indication of mental handicap as well as dementia so it is hard to say. I have more experience dealing with dementia and Alzheimer's patients than with mentally handicapped patients so hopefully another person can speak to that possibility.
I sometimes wonder if people that do this are on the spectrum and never been diagnosed.
It sounds like the guy wanted to vent his anger about the other vet and, since he presumably has no one to talk to at home,  he gets it all out whenever he can snag a captive audience. He'd be a monster if he ever figured out Yelp. LOL

My dad is kinda the same way. He is a huge extrovert. And being largely homebound due to his disabilities (and now COVID) has really messed with him. So whenever he's out and about, he'll talk people's ears off about random stuff and sometimes won't get the hint when they clearly want to end the conversation. I let him talk/vent to me as much as I can so he feels less compelled to rope strangers into random conversations or waste his doctor's time talking about TV shows he likes
He sounds like a lonely elderly man who is probably really struggling with what’s going on with covid and just wanted someone to talk to.
"*Does anyone have any opinions on what might've been going on w/ this guy?*"

No.  If you figure it out, tell us.

I don't feel as sorry for him as everyone else does.  It *seems* like a personality disorder.  Their wife was the social secretary, and when she died, he had no companion and no talking skills.

Fine; leave everybody else alone.  Stop forcing yourself on everyone.  Grow a clue from watching movies that conversation is a two-way street.

I do feel sorry for the cat.
I agree it was big time, "I have an audience bc these ppl are forced to sit here waiting for their pets" and sometimes I notice a big correlation between that and old age, which makes me wonder if dementia's playing a role.
 I worked retail for six months and the young ones never acted like that; some "supermoms" bragged about their kids, but most just wanted to get the hell in and out, and a significant amount of the older customers would have your ear and either not realize or care that others needed assistance too.
Thank you for your input, you really covered all the bases here and truly on point!

 Yes, def appeared to be single older man. I know the tech came out at one point and referred to "masses" within the cat being a concern, but that's all I really heard concerning the problem itself. Tumors maybe? IDK. 

He kept going on and on about another vet who "slammed the phone down on him", he was naming the vet themselves, he said he should picket outside their practice, etc. He mentioned the cat wasn't his, but dumped in his lap by someone else basically, and literally said the thing about how he wasn't wanting to spend the money. So either that's a cover for not having it, or maybe he truly had no desire to spend it. And if I felt he thought he had a hand in the demise of the cat, I'd say it. But I don't think so. I think he was just like, "it was dumped in my lap." 

Honestly I wanted to at some point take the poor cat myself, as I've taken on the cats of friends who were moving away, couldn't bring them with them, etc. 

If he didn't understand what they were saying that was truly on him because these women could not have spent more time trying to be thorough with him. And instead he kept reverting to insulting the other practice...it was bizarre. 

So yeah your theory makes sense that it was just, "I don't like what I'm hearing price-wise, bc I can't or don't want to pay it." 


I think he liked this ER practice though, bc he did keep saying he wanted to go there for primary care but they were kinda like, well we don't do primary care. And I did NOT hear them recommend any primary vets to the guy. This place may have been one of the only ones who straight-up didn't ask him to leave, and showed angelic patience, so maybe he meant he wanted to hang out there more? IDK. 

The whole thing was just upsetting. I'm the other end of the spectrum, my poor baby has HCM, stage 2 kidney, and just underwent colon surgery and woke up sneezing so we were at the ER to make sure THAT wasn't an issue. Yeah, I'm the extra hyper mom who hands over the credit card for her best chance possible. Thank you for your kind words about her, her vet teams have been amazing with her. 

I don't always love the price but I wouldn't ever act like how that guy did. Quite frankly I worry that a cat is suffering right now because guy isn't paying for the optimal treatment plan/isn't all there cognitively.
Yeah it was horrible like I had to step in and tell him to stop talking while I'm talking to the intake tech about MY cat who was there, by the way, to make sure she wasn't having a complication from a major surgery the week before. 
Loudness and needing a constant audience seems like personality disorder, yes. The repetition and irrelevant babble, that's where I was thinking dementia. 
Oh god yeah I wanted to take the cat home with me.
1. When did you get your psychiatry licence? 
2. People don't just "grow a clue" on their own, especially not people with PDs, especially not older people with PDs who have lacked treatment for decades of their lives.
3. People with PDs aren't inherently worse or less deserving of compassion.
>He mentioned the cat wasn't his, but dumped in his lap by someone else basically, and literally said the thing about how he wasn't wanting to spend the money. So either that's a cover for not having it, or maybe he truly had no desire to spend it. And if I felt he thought he had a hand in the demise of the cat, I'd say it. But I don't think so. I think he was just like, "it was dumped in my lap."

Ah yes, the 'the cat was dumped in my lap/isn't REALLY mine' routine. I've legit asked clients how long ago the pet was "dumped" and had to raise an eyebrow when they said 10 years ago. If he kept the cat and kept it out of a shelter situation...that's still a net positive in my opinion.

Considering this person could have chosen to do nothing, just dumped the cat back out the door or taken the cat to the shelter tells me that they are more invested in the cat than the rude behavior implies. 

&#x200B;

>Yeah, I'm the extra hyper mom who hands over the credit card for her best chance possible. Thank you for your kind words about her, her vet teams have been amazing with her.

That's good to hear that she's in such good care and doing hopefully better today. If it makes you sleep any better at night (and it should) the fact that your kitty is getting such good care means that they are also doing their best for that other kitty even if cost is keeping them from exploring every single possible diagnostic/treatment option. Vets get into this to help animals, and they routinely do just that, even if it's at the detriment of the bottom line. If you heard masses correctly it may be one of the less desirable outcomes (the big C often comes to mind in these instances) but that doesn't mean there is nothing that can be done to provide quality of care for that cat until even more difficult decisions must be made.

Hope your kitty continues to enjoy a wonderful quality of life.
you really are the sweetest! And I absolutely believe they are doing their beset for that other kitty as well. Yes, the big C came to mind; having lost one of my best cuddly buddies to a lung mass last year still hurts every day. I just hope this cat wouldn't be home suffering for too long if it is that. I worry it would be home with an owner letting it suffer for too long....sigh... I thank you for your well wishes for my little one and I hope that other cat gets the best possible outcome too.
