Umm, my mom hasn't got this bad yet, I don't have special training but, I wonder if this might help... Get 2 large (well, maybe A4 size, or half that) colour photos of your grandma, one from when they were married and a current one.  Put them together in the same frame, and keep it somewhere he always sees it. (labelled "Rhonda 1952 ;  Rhonda 2015)  Your grandma could get a large locket necklace, and put her photo from 30 years ago, or her marriage time in it, and wear it around her neck.  Idk but... So sorry, best of luck!
I have no advice, I just wish you and your family the best. Hugs and love and strength to you and yours ❤️
How does your grandfather react to your grandmother? Like if she's right there, does he acknowledge there's another person with him? Or does he view her as a stranger intruding?
Photographs are a great idea! Thank you for taking the time to respond!!
Just wanted to tell you I gave my grandma this idea and she thought it was great and is going to try it! thank you so much again!!
Thank you so much ❤️❤️
He thinks of her as a kind companion, thankfully!
That's wonderful!!  You're welcome.  Maybe she could also do a couples one, of them together - "then & now".. Idk, hope it doesn't just confuse him :(   Sad, it's like that movie The Notebook  :) ....   Tell your grandma - modern wonders of internet, this idea came all the way to her from Australia!!  :)    good luck!
Okay, this is good! The suggestion with the pictures in the other comment is a great idea, but if those don't work and your grandfather calls at night, absolutely convinced your grandmother is not with him, maybe confirming this helps. Like: "yes, we know, she's not with you right now but sleeping over at a friend / our place etc., but she will absolutely be back in the morning!". This could be a good short time solution to convince him everything is alright.
She’ll love to hear that!! The internet is an amazing place :) it’s worth a try, and definitely says something if she wants to try bc it’s been a lot of stress on her! It’s a great idea, And yes, very much like the notebook we’ve thought of that too!!
Thank you for the recommendation!! Will definitely try this!
