How is he doing? I remember you had posted a while back about him dealing with Parkinson's and COVID? (your user name reminds me of Ghost Busters - I think of the Marshmellow man).

Apathy is common. Depression is also common (ether way family should talk to his Neurologist to let them know what is going on).

COVID lockdown is messing with all of us, but for those with Parkinson's being locked up at home is not good. Not seeing your normal social activities is also hard.
Could you start therapy when you get to school? I’m in a similar but different boat where my brother got sick almost overnight and lost all of his physical capabilities. So I grieve a lot of who he used to be and how our lives were before he got sick. Honestly I’ve been going through it for 4 years now and for me it hasn’t gotten easier. I’m starting therapy again since it seemed to help a bit last year. I still wish I could rewind time and save him or something. Someone also mentioned this type of grief is usually labeled complicated grief so you could look into that too. I hope it gets better for you and for your father.
I go through this a lot with my wife, who suffered a traumatic brain injury two years ago. It is so hard to watch the person you knew to be strong and vibrant suddenly struggle with so much. Not to mention they can no longer give you the type of affection and love you received from them for so long. I don’t know if this will help you but I really really try to make  my wife laugh as much as possible and compliment her way more than I ever did before the injury. As I try and lift her spirits it usually helps to lift mine too. Maybe if you can find the things that still bring make your father happy, you can share in the joy of the moment. I mean, it still hurts like hell when you think about how things used to be but I really hope you can make new memories with him.

I really feel your pain when thinking about the future too. For me, I almost can’t think more than a few weeks out without starting to have a panic attack. We have a two year old daughter and I start to worry about what impact this whole situation will have on her life. The best I can offer on that is quite cliche, but it helps me to focus on just planting one foot in front of the other.
He’s doing much better compared to last time since he’s recovered from COVID, but I think on a whole he has really gone steeply downhill these past few months. He’s now living with my grandfather and I think my grandfather has hired an additional caregiver. He seems much less connected with reality if that makes sense- it started off with him having mild hallucinations that he knew weren’t real but the hallucinations have very quickly gotten more “real” to him and he can’t tell them apart from reality as easily. His personality has also changed a lot- at least when I was taking care of him it seemed that he was dealing with a lot of paranoia . For example, he would get angry very easily and say that I was trying to control him and take away all of his happiness when that of course wasn’t the case:
I plan to, thanks for the info!
