I'm in the U.S., but it's just as insane. We sold the family home to have money to cover my mom's care in a locked memory care community ($7,000 a month). She was wandering and it was either I sell my house and move in with her (my home only has two bedrooms and one bath, and I have a husband and college student) or move her into a community trained in Alzheimer's care. Her house was under a reverse mortgage that my dad had taken out a couple of years before he died, and there was a rule that once my mom was no longer living in her home full-time, everyone had to get out within 30 days. House hunting in a tight market was too risky. We didn't want to risk being homeless or having to live in a hotel.

Here, we've been working with lawyers. We were originally told that once she's down to her last $2,000 in assets, she will go on Medicaid and go into one of the four area Medicaid Alzheimer's communities. Even those are about $5,000 a month private pay and one has a wait list of 5 years, the best is also the scariest and has a year wait. She has about six months of rent left at the place we were able to find her space. The latest word we've been given is that because her SS and 50% of my dad's pension is more than $2,000, she will never qualify for Medicaid and that she will have to move in with me. 

The entire system depresses me. I will end up quitting a job to provide her full-time care. I also spent almost two decades staying home with my kids because of the cost of daycare and the lack of school bus service in my area once they were in high school. At a point I thought I'd be returning to work and building up my own retirement funds, I think it's all going to be a loss. I don't see easy answers, but the current system sure isn't working in most areas.
I feel for you and hope it works out.  The thing that's really doing my brain in is that this is the first time I've had to deal with this but everyone I deal with just assume I know what they're talking about, I have no idea, it's all new to me, I never thought I'd have to set up a fucking business to look after my mum
