Tunnel vision and a shift to seeing only two dimensional is a part of the diseases progression. That is why you approach people from dementia from the front so they are not startled.
I don't know about blindness, but some sort of visual hallucinations or black spots can happen in the periphery of their vision, and especially in the "blind spots" to either side, when short-term memory can't fill in the bits that the eyes can't quite see, as normally happens.

My relative with early onset sometimes has episodes where she is repeatedly frightened by an "enormous fly" or similar, coming at her from just where her blind spot is on one side. Moving her head around seems to alleviate it for a few seconds, and in a couple of minutes it stops happening. So far, at least.
I know that depth perception is an issue. Also picking out contrast - i.e. the red plate study that found ALZ patients ate better when foods were put on a plate that has strong contrast.
My dad often has trouble processing what he is seeing, especially window reflections. So lights on in the house that reflect in the conservatory windows, after sunset, become a fire in the garden. Just like they lose the ability to fill in the gaps in their life it can cause similar issues with sight, hearing etc.
Is she already diagnosed with Alzheimer’s? Google “visual changes in Alzheimer’s” to find more info, but it’s very common to experience visual changes with Alzheimer’s. There’s also an atypical form of Alzheimer’s called “visual variant” that often presents with visual changes/symptoms first. 

Since it is possibly related to the brain and not the eye itself, a regular ophthalmologist might not be able to provide much helpful info. You can ask her neurologist to evaluate, or possibly refer to a Neuro-ophthalmologist who specializes in vision changes that are a result of brain problems.
Look up Benson's disease aka posterior cortical atrophy. My dad has it and from what I can understand it's basically Alzheimer's with progressive visual impairment.
My MIL has some lateral neglect - I have to be careful to no startle her when coming from the right!
My MIL always had pretty bad depth perception, but a sudden and drastic change in her vision was actually how she got diagnosed.
Interesting thanks, have tried asking her about it but she's struggled to explain. Is it something that comes and goes?
It seems to be rare for my relative - or maybe she's hiding when it happens as she did with a lot of symptoms. I'm not sure. But it seems to come and go. 

I'm not sure either of us has remembered to talk about it with her neurologist, so I guess take what I say with a grain of salt? But I had read about the phenomenon in one of the pamphlets they gave us about Alzheimer's disease, so I was expecting it when it first started happening.
