Show up and tell him to take an hour to himself. Even if that’s just so he can take a drive or a walk alone. My FIL has advanced dementia and my husband and I have been caring for him full time. I work full time and my husband stays home. We rarely get a break and feel guilty asking for help. It’s a hard life being a caregiver.
Just pick up a phone. How are YOU?
One thing I saw with my parents is the house sort of went to hell. My dad was managing my mom full time, and she used to do all the cooking and cleaning - but then she couldn't vacuum, dust, do dishes properly, do laundry. He did what he could with washing clothes, but nobody ironed clothes, vacuumed, washed floors, dusted - for years. 

So that sort of thing - if your uncle is doing the yard work, maybe you guys can step up to do that, outdoors, or hire some help for that. If he's comfortable with you in the house, or a a monthly maid service, given the covid situation, some help washing bedding, floors, showers, toilets, etc. 

Does he cook? What are they doing for meals? Are you close enough where you can drop off premade freezer meals?  Can you do weekly outdoor social distancing get-togethers so he can have a normal adult conversation?
Show up with lunch and do what needs doing.  Same as for anyone who is sick, injured, or needs help.
Drop off dinner already made. My mom lives in an Alzheimer's community where they're trained to handle her rage and such, but on the days that I have to take her to appointments or when she broke her wrist, coming home after hours of fighting her to get out of the car, into the car, back into her building, into the ER/doctor's office, etc. having dinner ready would be delightful, but most of the time, I have to then throw myself into cooking, too, and most of the time it's just easier to pick up crap (Chinese, Dominos, diner food, and fast food are all that's available in my area) that I know is horrible, but I am just spent and have no energy left for anything else.

My brother and I are both on Steam and will play games together while chatting. Helps us vent and get our minds on something else.
As others have said, taking the initiative to clean and providing meals is a fantastic starting point. Also providing sane conversation to your uncle is huge - this disease is insidious and begins to rob caregivers of their own cognitive abilities. If I didn't talk to my dad for a couple days when he was the sole caregiver for my mom he would be significantly less "sharp" the next time we spoke from the stress and necessity to "live in her world" and survive the day.

Another element that is super important but rarely delivered is consistency. We had many friends of the family and even family members say they wanted to help and to let them know what they could do. When we asked them to stay with my mom for a couple hours it always had to be organized around their schedule, and they were always eager to make it a shorter visit which forced us to rush through whatever meeting we had to do - which just added stress. In the early days of her diagnosis, when my mom was relatively OK and could enjoy dinner out at a restaurant with a friend people would say "I'd love to take her out once a week to give you a break" - the consistency never happened.

That consistency would have allowed my dad the opportunity to plan both errands and reprieves for himself that would have been a huge game changer for all of us. 

Also, regarding all of the above, both your uncle and LO will probably say you are kind to offer but say its not necessary. Do the cleaning, meals, and visits anyway. Insist. Your uncle is underwater and does not wish to put his burden on anyone else because its terrible, but we all know caregivers need to be cared for as well.

You're a wonderful person for supporting your family.
Yes, show up to the house and let the caregiver get out for an hour or so. 

If you stop over for a visit, bring coffee, food, whatever. Serve it and clean it up.

Don’t say, if you need anything, just let me know. Just go ahead and do something.
I would suggest taking the time together first, so you can see how he takes care of her. Tempo, tone and intonation already make a huge difference for the response you will get. He'll know that you get it, and be more relaxed on his time off.
I am actually 3 hours away but he has family close by. I was visiting recently and he confessed to me that he is really struggling and that he having a really difficult time asking for help even though he knows that everyone wants to help. I am working with the family to try and provide him with assistance. *not going behind his back, this was him reaching out for help*
Thank you for this. This really helps.
Thanks. This is the kind of response that I was hoping for.
Help him make a list of tasks that take up too much of his time, that are easily passed on to someone else. Making food, doing laundry, administrative tasks, cleaning the house are all hard to ask help with, but take up a huge chunk of time and attention.
There's a lot of different types of help, has he mentioned more specifically what he needs? Can you ask him? Do you think he needs physical help with chores more, or emotional support more, or breaks, or conversation with other adults for his sanity? Or all of it? 

Once you narrow that down, you can talk to the family that lives nearby maybe to come up with strategies. If he needs time away, they could come by to stay with her while he goes for a walk, or goes to see a friend in an outdoor socially distanced setting, if possible. And while they stay with her, depending on her state, if she can do "occupational therapy" they can work with her to do laundry or dusting. Folding laundry together is a thing that I've seen in memory care units, as a way to make sure residents are still feeling useful as long as possible, even if they need help and guidance doing it. It's better than someone doing everything for them. 

Bonus points if the family can phrase it as wanting to spend time with her, instead of "offering to help." If she still talks, if she can still tell stories, maybe one of them can request time alone with her, to record her memories, or even just her talking, as a family tree/ancestry sort of project.  

Or if he has any land at all, maybe the nearby family could ask to do a 4x4 raised bed plot on it with her help - or his help ? and they could share whatever grows.
