We tell my MIL her dog is with her mom. She asks over and over but it seems to appease her. We used to tell her the truth, it just made her angry and argumentative.
Try the honest way at least once. They'll forget, so if it didn't work, nothing is lost. Get them in a lucid moment, take them back to the here and now: where they are, that they've been sick, that the dog was very sick too, that they've been in the hospital for a long time, and that the dog died while they were gone. And that you took good care of the dog, etc. 

If this doesn't land well, wait until they have forgotten what you told them and switch to 'went with .. for a walk' etc. There were a few good examples on a recent post.
There's no easy way to do this.  If he can't remember, telling him now will only leave him with an unidentifiable form of sadness but he may not understand *why* he is so sad.  I'd wait until the last possible moment and then tell him.  You'll probably have to tell him over and over again.  Alternatively, you could tell him that she's also in the hospital and that he can't visit her.  That's not really a long term solution and you go back to option one.
It's possible that after this show of grief his mind will now protect him from the truth and he will never believe that his loved animal passed away.
Pre Covid dad was living with me. He had some medical incidents happen and we had him in memory care since March. At home I took care of my dog and my cat and his dog. Unfortunately in June,  Ajax (his dog) was bitten by a poisonous snake and he passed away. Dad doesn’t know this, eventually I want to bring dad home but the last few times he’s asked about the pets. We are vague and change the subject. I’m getting another dog (Ajax was an awesome dog and I miss his absence a lot)I don’t have any advice I just wanted to say I’m going through something very similar as well.
Is getting a replacement pet an option? It won’t help his feeling of loss but it might be a good distraction.
I think that’s gonna be our best bet.
Thank you! I literally JUST saw the other post as I was coming to reply to your comment so I’m about to look through those comments, as well.
The hospital idea might work. But he gets combative when we tell him people can’t visit him at the hospital because he forgets about Corona Virus.
This is a definite possibility. My aunt had a similar experience, but it was her husband of 63 years that passed away last month. The initial day she was told and she cried and was very upset. She hasn’t mentioned it sense.
I’m sorry you have to deal with this, too! It’s a terrible situation. Feel free to DM me if you ever wanna talk about things!
I wouldn't recommend it, animal care will become difficult over the years, and the dog might outlive it's owner.
That is definitely an option and we’ve been looking at puppies in the shelter. But we wanted to give him a chance to look, too. That’ll definitely help, it’s just the getting home and her not being there that I’m worried about.
Yes, they would of course have to take those factors into consideration.
Sorry for your dilemma, so sad.  Might be better to try find an older doggy that needs re-homing... My elderly memory lossed neighbour got a puppy to replace his departed dearly beloved doggy - the puppy was just too much for him - too energetic, wrecking everything, not house trained - he had a nightmare, it was just disaster... And as his condition worsened, it was huge stress for him what would happen with the young dog... Idk your situation but ... Many oldies have to eventually surrender their beloved, and most folk don't want to adopt older dogs... best of luck!
