They don't recognize their own, older face.  If they remember anything they remember 20, 30, 40 years ago.  "I want to go home" means "I'm uncomfortable here because I am unable to see this as my home."
My mom's memory care specialists told me that when she does her loop of "I want to go home," it's not that she wants "home" per se, but she's not feeling safe within herself and wants a sense of security. We've yet to find the one thing that makes her feel secure.
Rather than try to convince her that she is home, use distraction to help her move along. Start by asking where home is, if that home is with parents - asking about them will allow other topics to come up. Many people find going for a short walk or drive to home also helps. The video idea might work and is definitely worth a go, everyone is different.
"I was planning to take you home tomorrow. Would you like to listen to some music right now?" (Of course tomorrow never comes, but if she doesn't remember that you promised to take her home, then win-win, right? 

"Not today. Your home is being renovated. How about some lunch?" 

"You know, there is some road construction between here and there. It would be very difficult to go home right now. How about a short drive?"
Also still trying to find that one thing. It's weird because when she thinks she's not at home sometimes she'll indicate she thinks she's in a school or her old workplace. Both places she often reminisces about
In my mom's case, she is British. She grew up on the North Sea coast, so we started out thinking that "home" was her dream of returning to England. I took her to Maine a couple of years ago, and after just three minutes on the beach, she was sick of it and wanted to go "home." It was hell in the cottage I rented. She kept trying to go outside to look at the moon. 2 a.m. and she's still wide awake and trying to sneak out. If I stopped her, she'd go try to make another pot of coffee. If I stopped her there, she'd try to get outside again. I am usually in bed by 9 p.m. and up at 5, so 2 a.m. was brutal. Finally got her to sleep at 2:30ish and she woke up screaming at 5 a.m. because she had no idea where she was or how she got there. Tried to take her to the beach again and she just wanted to go home. Took her home and she didn't recognize it and argued that the house she'd lived in for almost 50 years wasn't her home. That's when I started to realize there isn't a home she'll recognize. Even if we'd been able to get her back to England, her childhood home is completely different.
My Dad is Irish, and the more advanced the disease gets, the more he responds to Irish accents. I have had great success with BBC world service radio, and old ITV and BBC programs. He's so impatient with new movies now because he can't follow along, but I can get him to watch something new if everyone has an accent. He won't follow along well, but he will sit back and enjoy. The current kick he is on has him watching nothing but British panel shows, he will watch and rewatch those for hours.
