How about “I know it will be tough. I’ll be here for you if you need someone to talk to afterwards”.
Very difficult. Try and encourage him and tell him he’s doing it for her. Not sure of her state but if she is still talkative then speak to her, record it and that’s for him. Something I wish I had more of my parents. Take photos of her. Share photos with her. Anything could trigger a response and every little response is a bit your get back of her.
Just the fact that you're asking, speaks volumes about the kind of friend you are. Echoing the previous responses - definitely let him know that you're here for him, that you'll BE there if he needs/wants to talk, then follow up & ask him how he's doing later.100%, even if it's hard, to take photos.  One of the things I'm realizing with my own Mom is that this is form of ongoing grieving is like trying to wade through molasses. It's exhausting & impacts every facet of my life. Just having a friend who regularly checks in - be it to distract me from my thoughts or to provide an outlet for them makes a HUGE difference. People often don't know what to say when someone has lost a loved one...can you imagine how much more so this is true when you lose someone in slow motion? Just by BEING there for him, now & when the eventual outcome occurs, will mean more than you can know. Sending you & your friend support. Xo
Just "I know it will be tough." There's no silver lining with Alzheimers, so there's nothing to come after the "but". If you want to be encouraging, "I'm here for you." or even, "Let me know if you want company on the drive."
I agree it should be something like this.

Scrap the 'but'.
Not to hammer on this too much, but as someone whose parent is in a similar situation, I agree that there's no appropriate "but" statement here. It's a sad disease where nothing gets better.

The best things my friends have done for me is to ask about him, even if sometimes I don't feel like talking about it and give a short "The same as always." Please don't take it badly if he seems this snappish when you ask, sometimes I just don't want to put everyone into a sad mood, make the atmosphere weird or go into a dark mental place.
