Trust me sir I hear you loud and clear. My dad right now just had another heart attack and stroke. He already has advanced dementia as does mom. I don't know what I'm going to do. But he's in the hospital at moment and as a matter of fact I just got home and sat down it's 10:23p.m central time. But well one day at a time one day at a time. I guess in the next day or two I'll cross the bridge or question about dads care. I'm really sorry all of you are going through this. 

Today I must've heard it at least 5 times as I walked by some folks talking about this virus being a hoax. I thought to myself well I hope they never have to see or experienced what I've been through. Here in the state I'm in right now its hot with covid-19. I personally know of 14 people with the virus right now. At least another 12 who have died. So I just take it one day at a time. Your mother seems to be a real gem these diseases are horrible. They rob people of their lives. One recent friend of the family who passed with covid was 32 years old. She'd just found the love of her life a year ago and married about 6 months ago. Now she's gone sometimes im just at a loss for words.

I'm sitting here feeling your family's pain. I'm so sorry she's not there surrounded by an obviously loving family. Please all of you look after each other and comfort each other. 

Anyone reading this please wear a mask and follow the recommended guidelines. Even those who are surviving this dreadful disease in most cases have some left over side affects. Please please don't give it a chance to take one more person.
Forgive me for asking this... she actually *floated* away from her job? As if to say "So long, losers!" If so, that's amazing.
I can't imagine what you and your wife must be feeling now. I'm so sorry for your pain. I hope she comes out of it alright, but if things do go to worst case, I hope it's swift & peaceful for her. My sincerest condolences.
I'm so sorry you're dealing with this. The fact that you can't visit her is devestating.
What a beautiful tribute to her. I hope I am as good to my son in law. I’m sorry y’all can’t be with her.
Its my request to you to bring home to her because not every memory care is good, except [memory care oceanside](https://www.oceanhillsseniorliving.com/living-options/memory-care/)they provide amazing luxury retirement communities in Oceanside hence  Ocean Hills Senior Living is best for oldies.
Yes, she actually did that!
