Sure, the first one: use extra-night diapers, a size larger than they should. Use also soakers pads, the ones you put and dispose as needed. And finally consider using a nightgown for man, that will make any change easier and things simpler. You can buy it in black or blue and you can always tell him it is normal (wich it is) in case of any resistance. You can even pick one together on Amazon. I think men used to wear those years ago, I remember Donald Duck and Mickey Mouse wearing those in toons.

Now, the second part: to advoid damages in the skin. First step is any barrier cream. If that is not working good enough I would say linovera oil. And patches. Linovera made wonders for my grandma. But the patches and the cream depends a lot so is hit and miss until you discover the best ones. I use one called Bephanthol, the thick version and Coloplast as creams. And Mepilex Border Lite as patches. But this can change A LOT depending where you live.

The final part: incontinence is normal. Are his ankles or wirsts swelling? He might be accumulating liquids during the day and those are processed when he goes to the bed and all that liquid goes where it should. It is normal, there are diuretics and may be a sign of some minor insufficiency in the heart, don't be alarmed, it is normal and easy to solve with diuretics.

As a last resort and if everything goes bad and you are afraid of skin breaking I heavily suggest considering a change mid-night. It is always better than getting up every two hours and sure is better than the cares his skin will need if it breaks.

Hope that helps. English is not my primary language and these are complex subjects, if you have any doubt you can DM me and I will do my best to explain whatever doubt you might have
Tried different brands and the best seems to be Abena plus their booster pad (which is one huge, long rectangular thing, so I cut it in half and it becomes two not as long rectangular things which in turn, gets folded over lengthwise so it's doubly thick, still rectangular). Mom sleeps on top of a disposable bed pad that's on top of a cloth bed pad. There's only been maybe three leakages in however many years since this setup. I also turn her every 4 hours and since she averages about 12, 15 hrs of sleep, that's like changing her three times in the middle of the night; well, the first change is while I'm still up because I put her to bed earlier than when I sleep. That's more doable than every two hours, plus less involved than actually going to the bathroom.

I wipe her with wet wipes cuz she refuses to shower or bathe and either a barrier, petroleum, perineal, or other skin lotion type cream, depending on the condition of her skin. If necessary, maybe something like a Tegaderm bandage/dressing that's breathable (hospital/SNFs used them).

Btw, make sure medically, he's ok. UTI can cause frequent urination. All the best...
Is your dad on any muscle relaxers like Baclofen?  If so, I'd reduce his nighttime dosage.  I care for my family member who was wetting a lot at night and we reduced her nighttime Baclofen and it's worked (cut nighttime dose in half).  The bladder is a muscle so anytime you take a muscle relaxer it makes incontinence worse.  Hope that helps!
He could be having prostate issues. My Dad takes Proscar and he also takes Oxybutynin. They've helped a lot. 

It says to take Oxybutynin in the morning, we found it's best at night. 

He also tales Zoloft for depression and it has been used for bedwetting in kids. 

I keep a few urinals at his beside. Now he only wets the bed if he slept too deep.

We have a mattress protector and mattress pads in between that and the sheets to help soak his pee if he does go. 

Our bigger issue is #2. Sometimes it just hits him and before he can get to the toilet it's all over the floor...
There is on a medication called Tamsulosin that is for the purpose of helping the bladder empty completely when urinating. Ask your dad’s doctor about it.
Hi there, you may find this article helpful: [https://givingcare.silverts.com/index.php/dressing-solutions-for-parkinsons-patients/](https://givingcare.silverts.com/index.php/dressing-solutions-for-parkinsons-patients/)

[Adaptive pants](https://www.silverts.com/fleece-adaptive-mens-wheelchair-pants) that have a full back overlap can help with frequent changes or cleaning.
