Has his doctor done labs like Vitamin D, Vitamin B, Thiamine, TSH, CBC, and a urinalysis? It could be related to lab values, it could also be related to medications, you mentioned a new medication, did this begin after the new medication? Has he had any recent falls? Has anything else changed in his routine? Does he have a diagnosis of Parkinson’s? What type of dementia has he been diagnosed with? Sorry, I know those are all questions, not answers but they could lead to answers for you and your family.
If the change is very sudden it could be due to an UTI. He could also be experiencing pain, that could make any person blow up. 

Or it could be part of the dementia, and you'll have to work out what triggers it, and work around it. Do protect your own boundaries, and walk away if you have to. It will be easier to talk him back into the house after a walk together around the block, than to keep him inside in the first place. Bend with him where you can, and protect your own safety first .
See if he qualifies for Medicaid.  If his assets are valued below a certain threshold, he may qualify.  Many care facilities accept it.
I'm going to let you know what we've done for our dad after his dementia got worse because of the pandemic. Hopefully something in here will help you guys out, but I know my dad may have resources not everyone has.

Before the pandemic, my dad was having some sleepless nights and sundowning, but was otherwise doing pretty well, all things considered. After Covid hit, he became anxious, easily angered, and beginning to get violently. He was wandering almost every night and had even managed to escape into the backyard twice.

We put a deadlock on all the doors that would give him access out of the house. It's not at all ideal - we try to keep keys everywhere in case of emergencies - but it was more likely my dad would wander outside and get lost than it was likely we'd need to run quickly. We only lock them at night or on days where his symptoms are really bad. We already had alarms on the doors - now they serve as back up in case someone forgets to lock the door at night. 

We talked to his neurologist about what to do about him not sleeping at night. It took a LOT of tweaking medications, giving it about two weeks, seeing how he does, and tweaking more if needed. At the end, it did not cure his sleepless nights, but it did calm him down and make him less anxious. The neurologist also put him on an antidepressant medication (which is not meant to be used long term - more hoping to help us get through the pandemic isolation) and tweaked another medication he was on for anxiety.

As for homes, most memory care facilities won't take someone who is violent. You may want to search for a home that will work with your dad. As for funding it, if you haven't done so already, you might actually want to talk to your local memory care facilities to see if they can steer you in the right direction when it comes to funding. When I was doing research, one of the facilities asked if my dad owned his home, and was satisfied when I told them he did. I didn't inquire further since I know my dad has funds in the Family Trust to help with those expenses, but it might be worth it to talk the care facilities about help paying for those things.

Also, the neurologist set us up with a social worker who has been able to give us some suggestions for his care. Maybe they will be able to help you guys out for how to help your dad.

I'm sorry I can't be of more help. I know how helpless you must feel right now, but I hope you can find the help you need.
We have not gotten labs done recently due to the pandemic and much of our doctor vists have been through video. All this began before the new medication he did not take any falls, nothing has really changed routine wise. We try to keep everything the same. It is just progressing very rapidly right now and it is a lot to deal with.
Thanks for the insight, you were actually plenty of help. It's nice to realize that my family is not the only ones going through such a tough time right now. I will be doing more research on memory care facilities around my area and I have an appointment with the neurologist upcoming this week.
