Ohh, sad... It's impossible to know what's going on with him, without doctor checkup.  Me, I'm not medical specialist, just a normal person, my mother had alzheimers diagnosis 10 years ago, I'm her full-time at-home carer.  I did some short training courses for family carers, with the Alzheimers Australia organisation (now changed name to Dementia Aust).

It could be just a rough week - it could be he is dehydrated, which causes some sudden on-set temporary deterioration - it could be he has a UTI (urinary tract infection) , which also causes sudden on-set temporary deterioration - or, it could be the next stage on his journey - also, it could be just some bee in his bonnet about that particular topic.   If somebody could get him to a doctors to check those 2 physical medical conditions, it would be good. 

 The lockdowns around the world, are effecting many memory lossed folk very badly, it could also be partly that - folk isolated, stuck inside the same walls, without daily stimulus of going around outside meeting people etc... 

If he can still reply to most questions, that's a great sign.   Everybody deteriorates at different pace - some faster sooner some slower later, sometimes momentary blips of apparent worsening... Never know how it's going to go until it's happening.  Only doctors can check it out and attempt answers ... 

I think Alzheimers org and Dementia org in your country have telephone helplines you can call, and ask them what's their professional opinion & thoughts about your questions.  

Best of luck to you and your brother!
If it is a significant slide suddenly from what you know his normal level is, you need to get him checked out immediately.  This could be due to an UTI, a stroke, etc. Is there anyone else who lives with him that you could call and ask about the progression of symptoms? If you call and they say he is suddenly worse, that is a huge red flag that something is wrong and he needs to go to the doctor ASAP. If the person who lives with him says his behavior is par for the course, that's different. Like lookthepenguins said, this might just be the topic that is coming to mind for him at the moment.

This unnatural progression happened to me. My person had significant bleeding after hemorrhoid surgery, and all of the doctors and nurses read dementia in his chart and figured this level of confusion was normal. It ABSOLUTELY was not. I had to fight for him and take him to the ER. He was admitted, and surprise, surprise, he was severely anemic and the stitches had torn. They redid the stitches, gave him blood, and admitted him overnight. Guess who was back to normal in the morning?
I'll be honest, it's very unlikely to get better, this is probably the new normal until his next slide. I can only speak with the experience of my father having vascular dementia, which is different, but he really only asks the same handful of questions these days. Still able to talk about other things, but they aren't "safer ground" like you say, and so he becomes a little confused or stressed. Does your brother have a regular doctor he sees regarding his alzheimers? If so, they should be notified of changes and he should be seen again asap. Even if it's just tracking his progression, that can be helpful, but worst case scenario this could indicate another health concern. Best of luck xx
The only way to really know is to have him evaluated regularly. Does he have someone he lives with who can provide you information on a regular basis? Perhaps a friend or neighbor you are in contact with? There will be good days and bad days as Alzheimer's is a spectrum disease and he will likely vary from day to day and week to week, while getting progressively declining.
Thank you. I think lockdown is effecting him. He misses the distractions of his friends and isn’t used to being alone with his thoughts. I suppose it’s possible he might pick up a little once outside normality is restored. I assume he’s seeing a doctor but am not allowed to ask as no one (including me) is supposed to know about his condition. He doesn’t sound miserable which is a good thing.
Thanks giantgrahamcracker. That all makes good sense. That sounds like a horrible thing for you to have gone through.
Many thanks AgreeableSeries and mikeinariz. His girlfriend is with him all the time and is no doubt talking to his doc. As i mentioned they are a private couple and don’t want me butting in. I’m resigned to watching from afar bit still want to be able to discuss his symptoms with those who’ve had experience. This purely for me as i don’t have a role in his treatment except to be on the other end of a phone when he wants to chat.
Not to be bold, or intrusive, but why is no one supposed to know about his condition? This is worrisome because this is a progressive disease & if he is trying to manage his condition alone without a POA & someone who can intimately walk that journey with him, the time will come where it will likely hit a crisis point.

 I say this not to scare you (even though I know from experience how scary this is) but because I want to spare you some of what we went through (are still going through) with my Mom. She declined rapidly & prior to that, I spent a full year TRYING to get things in place for her as I could see that there was progressive memory concerns.

 Lack of insight is a hallmark of this condition & even though his doctor may be giving him advice, relying that the doctor is involved enough to catch the daily issues that arise or that your brother is cognitively able to process how to take care of himself properly is dangerous & fraught with potential downfalls. If not immediately, then sometime in the near future. A POA (while he still cognitively can consent to one) is a priority & a will & having discussions about end of life wishes would be a good idea too. Everything about this disease is difficult, but I can honestly tell you that preparing for the worst (as hard as it IS) is so much better than trying to handle a health crisis AND navigate the legal system to be able to advocate for your Loved One.

 I echo the other Redditors who have suggested checking in with his Doctor (you can fill them in on what you've been noticing without asking them to break confidentiality) & contacting the Alzheimer's society as they have wonderful resources. And we're always here if you need help. Sending encouragement & support to you & your family. Xo
Yeh, I see.  If you know who his doctor is, you can call & tell him your concerns for your brother, that's not against hippocratic oath & privacy policies, simply the doc can't give you any information about another patient. Yep, I understand peoples right to privacy re : their medical issues, plus like my mother, many oldies have stigma re : memory loss issues.  Dang, can just make it sort of harder.   The "return to normality" might take some long time, unfortunately... 
Umm, could you try get him on some other passtimes, like join a book club, or send him crossword puzzle books, or simple jigsaw puzzles, or .... Find him some additional activities to keep his brain stimulated. As they say "use it or lose it"... Not miserable sure is great!  :)
Many thanks Celticquestful and lookthepenguins. His girlfriend is looking after him so that part is ok. But he doesn't want others to know and i suspect is in denial himself. They are very private. I don't know his doc. My butting in would be seen as intrusive and unwelcome and i'd be blacklisted by both of them just at the time when he needs a friendly voice. So I prefer to be at the other end of the line when he calls and hopefully meet up in person after lockdown. I will contact the alzheimers society though. I've read enough to understand that it's a crummy diagnosis and can only hope he becomes more bewildered than angry during his journey into the fog. 

Thanks again!
