Just throwing this out there (it might not apply to your situation): It took me 40 years to fully understand my older brother's grudge against our parents. What changed is he told me one day "Growing up, I didn't feel they loved me" (for various complicated reasons). When he told me that, it felt like he dropped a piano on my head, but suddenly a lifetime of his asshole behavior finally made sense. The lesson I learned is: Members of the same family can have vastly different, subjective experiences from one another.
So sorry that you’re going through this and it sounds like you are being incredible support for your mum and grandma. I’ve experienced a similar thing; I live over 5 hours away from my parent and have been caring for them, but my sibling lives very close and makes poor excuses not to visit even when it’s urgent. As someone else mentioned, we can’t force them to visit. All we can do is give feedback about the effect of their decisions and hope that they may be more compassionate on the future, but not rely on it.
Unfortunately, you can’t control other people and you can’t force them to help. Has your mom looked into hiring any outside help? Maybe your mom can quit funding your sister-but again, that’s here choice.
Just wondering if there was a way to get some help in there, get someone to come in for even an hour or two a day and help. Does she have Insurance, medicare etc, anyone from her Church.  Might take the load off a bit. Bless you for helping.
Maybe time to hire a caregiver/home helper if the family needs a break or extra help. Or make a list of family friends, neighbors or church members who might stay with your grandma during emergencies. Sister has made it clear she is not on the list.

Your sister may have a shitty selfish attitude and not have a relationship you approve of with your family but you each get to make your choices in life.
I agree with /u/Dimeolas7  , you need to get some outside help. Just imagine how great 2 extra hours of sleep a night would be. 

Because she's 90 and has so many conditions, she will qualify for at least some in home care. This is just someone who comes to the house to cook a meal and do minor cleaning (dishes). 

Benefits will vary by state, so your best bet is to get in touch with a social worker. Social workers know the benefits available in your area and sign you up for them.
I have to ask: why does your grandmother, at age 90, need to be on chemo? My husband went through chemo in his 40s and it was a huge strain. I don't see how either your grandma's longevity or her quality of life will significantly benefit at her age, plus she has dementia. Why not just go for palliative care?
My mom lived in SoCal, 20 minutes from my sister.  I had moved to CentralCal 20 years ago--almost a 4 hour drive (3 if you're averaging 80mph--how do I know that?  hmmm).  

I took over mom's finances years ago, including working to get her out of debt.  Sister "helped" kinda sort, but mostly during emergencies, so there was that.  I arranged the cleaner, the part-time companion, etc etc.  But when mom needed to be in assisted living last November, I wanted her near me...so I could manage things and visit her.  

And I was visiting her, 4-5 hours, 2-3 times a week.  Until the fucking lockdown last March.  

All I can suggest is that, if she needs assisted living, see about selling her house and having her near the people who are actually taking care of her.  

Oh, mom's house was in a trust (so was the house she rented out).  The rental was sold last year when the very long-term tenants finally moved out.  Proceeds went to a trust account.  Mom's house was sold 2 months ago.  Proceeds went to the same trust account.  But because, as her Power of Attorney, I didn't have legal rights to manage the trust account, the money was moved to accounts in her name, with me, sister, and brother listed as designated beneficiaries  (a trust was no longer needed anyway, since no real property anymore).
You can’t blame your sister. I didn’t even go to my grandfather funeral or visited him when he was sick. Unfortunately, my grandmother was a collateral damage because I cut contact with her too. She was nice, but guilty by enabling my grandfather abusive behavior.
I see. Thank you for sharing! 

There’s a lot to unpack, that my mom is narcissistic, has a past abusive history, and asian tiger mom raised all of us. (Quite normal in our culture to have been beaten, disowned multiple times etc) 

We didn’t have the best upbringing, but as adults we all mostly set healthy boundaries with her and are able to communicate at a minimal level, with the exception of my sister.

I know her hate for my mom’s actions and horrible things shes said runs deep, but it hurts that she treats grandma like chopped liver when we may not have much time left :( 

How did you reconcile with your brother as an adult?
Thank you for the kind words. Wow, you are an amazing child to your mother.
Do you maintain a close relationship with your sibling? To me and in our household’s culture of caring for our elders, (especially as we were raised by grandma from birth to 5 years), her actions are seen as pretty selfish, and I’m trying to convince myself otherwise....
If you were me, would you choose to stay close to such a family member? I love her but I am shocked at her actions and lack of empathy. We were close and I usually showered her with gifts come birthdays and holidays, but after seeing her lack of care for grandma, I cannot bring myself to think of gifting her the usual lavish (to me) gifts.

Good suggestion. But unfortunately in south asian culture, outside help is frowned upon and they are extra afraid due to the pandemic.

My dad is actually the moneymaker and chooses to fund my sister endlessly because she has struggled with depression, and he is afraid that he would worsen her depression by tapering off his financial support of her.
Thank you!!!!
Theyre not open to the idea of hiring help...as in our culture its seen as a familial duty.
What a wonderful idea to ask for help from church friends though, but they all live fairly far from us. I’ll suggest to them to ask for help on an off day if anyone catches a cold or something
Thank you for your reply!
Yes this proactive step is much needed, I agree.
I am struggling a lot right now on maintaining a relationship with her, as I laid the truth to her that her actions this weekend were driving a rift from the family, and a horrible reason to neglect grandma....and she claims ‘I was mean to her’
Thank you for the thoughtful reply! Language barrier is the largest thing as my grandma hardly speaks english, and sometimes gets spooked by strangers.

Will bring this up to my parents this weekend and start researching options.
thanks for asking. Docs gave us the options of chemo or ostomy bag, and my mom and her siblings wanted to start treatment asap.
We only got chemo as she’s in good health otherwise (walks, eats just fine when not on chemo) and we hope the tumor will shrink enough that she can live a healthier life a few more years

I hope your husband is doing much better now!!!
So sorry for your loss and experiences too.
To clarify, my grandma wasn’t the abuser nor an enabler of my mom’s abusive behavior as she has been in a nursing home until she got the cancer

As everyone else is working hard to set aside past grievances to pitch in for my grandma’s care, I’m shocked at my sister’s apathy for the situation, despite how much my parents still support her. She has ‘cut most contact with my parents’ but still has no problem taking their money....
Wow, our moms have a lot in common:

Asian ✔  
Abusive history (she was abused as a kid) ✔  
Tiger-ish  ✔  
Narcissism ✔

This is goddamned sad to admit, but I'm not on speaking terms with my brother since January, when his pattern of emotional and (borderline) physical abuse of his son, 10, could no longer be ignored. I tried to do an intervention (with the guidance of my therapist) which my brother flat-out ignored. Sadly, my brother fits about 90 percent of traits for narcissistic personality disorder (a raging asshole, basically) and as time goes on, I like him less and less. 

BTW, he contributes zero to the care of my parents, 89 and 85, and only calls when he needs something. So I guess his crappy childhood is why I give him a pass. (I don't have any children so my plate is also a lot less occupied.)
I cannot truly understand because of the cultural differences. But, yes, personally, I would be less inclined to purchase lavish gifts for her. I wouldn’t ignore her birthday but I would probably decide to gift her far less than I had in previous years. 

Hopefully she is treating her depression. Sometimes that can make people tunnel-vision on themselves only and can’t deal with anyone else’s suffering or unpleasantness. Like a survival tactic.
It's interesting when families aren't open to hiring help.

So many changes in taking care of grandma compared to when those family-only social rules were created.

The cancer treatment keeps grandma alive but too sick to live without help.

That kind of burden is new.

Families used to live on the same street.

Traffic and distance are new.

Family was supposed to do the work, but that was not supposed to also mean"even if they have to kill themselves in the process. "

You and your fellow caregivers deserve time off.

That is exactly what money is for.
He is, thank you. Hope your grandma does well also.
Wow.... thank you for sharing, this makes me feel so much less alone

You are an amazing child to your parents and they are so, so lucky to have you... heres to hoping both your brother and my sister ever see the truth of their actions :/
