When my Dad ended up with Alzheimer’s we had to put him in a care center. It was time to quit worrying about his smoking. So much of his memories were gone but he enjoyed cigarettes. He could only smoke outside but it was still something he wanted to do. At 82 years old, people deserve to be comfortable.
My mum was a 2 pack a day lady. I tried to scale her down but that resulted in her self harming. I spoke to her Dr and he said just let her smoke. Her psychological wellbeing was way more important at that point so we just went with it then. Approx 1 year later she finally forgot she smoked - happy day for me. 

I am a retired Registered nurse so I get the concern about COPD but frankly it is the least of their problems with Dementia. They do forget eventually just make sure they smoke safely and with supervision. Their mental health is fragile so I totally support allowing some behaviours that normally we would try to curtail. I watched my Mum freak out and smash her head on the wall because I had restricted her to 5 cigarettes and that was one of the lowest points in my life. Watching a loved one suffer is horrendous so take any chance to make it easier.
I wish could offer help.  My mom also has COPD and dementia with a number of bouts of pneumonia.  It's been a really tough road but right now she isn't smoking.  Sadly that is in part because she spend a number of months in a nursing home.  She is home now and did smoke a short time after coming home.  She searched that house better then a team of CSI techs and found a pack that had to be at least 7 yrs old based on the brand.  She agreed to 2 a day but started to forget to ask for them so my dad got rid of them.  So far she has had a few issues but still not smoking.  I totally believe the smoking was a leading cause of the pneumonia issues and then the downward spiral into dementia...or at least sped it up.

Talk to the doctor to see if any of the meds would help. 
 Is she is still able to understand?  I use the "smoking raises your CO2 levels so you get loopy, then you aspirate on your food and drinks, get pneumonia, end up in the ER and your Doctor has told you that you barely made it the last time and more the likely won't again and if you do it would be back to the nursing home.". Sounds harsh but she worked in the dementia unit of a nursing home so she understands all of that and how it's connected.
Thanks for the responses.
I know vaping isn’t healthy, but it won’t cause the house to burn down, either.  Juuls are easy to use and have Virginia or Original tobacco flavors In 3% or 5% nicotine
Nicotine has been explored as a [treatment for Alzheimers](https://discover.vumc.org/2019/09/nicotine-to-treat-alzheimers-disease/) for decades. Switching her to vaping will remove the fire risk.
>As far back as 1988, Newhouse demonstrated intravenous nicotine could hold promise to treat Alzheimer’s. Now, he’s spearheading the Memory Improvement through Nicotine Dosing (MIND) Study that focuses on transdermal nicotine patches as a viable treatment for people at risk of Alzheimer’s
