If you can use the parental controls on her TV to block all the news channels and the weather channel. They will do nothing but make her upset. Try to redirect her to more calming choices like nature programs, shows from her childhood, or non story shows like Antiques Roadshow, American Pickers, or Pawn Stars.

Also check her mail to make sure she is not sending money to scam charities and scam PACs. They use the same talking points that the TV does to rile her up to send money.
My mother doesn’t even remember what politics are any more. She doesn’t know there’s a pandemic. 

Eventually everything just fades away.
[How Fox News and Right-Wing Media Brainwashed This Dad and Destroyed a Family](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v4UOsPoPMjA&list=LLcckST-NZfXSmMYJa2KXLyw&index=107)

I deleted Fox News from my dad's phone and replaced it with NPR, BBC World Service, this American Life (podcast app), WBUR Boston, audiobooks, and things like that.

I felt guilty about it for maybe one second, because my dad likes Fox News, but then I remembered that Fox News is an evil brainwashing machine that turns normal people into violently misinformed nut jobs. There is a propaganda war outside. It's not our responsibility to offer our parents as pawns to the machine.

When I was a child, my dad didn't want me watching the Simpsons because he thought it was a vulgar show. Well, Fox News is a vulgar network.

The great thing about BBC and NPR is that, unlike Fox News, they are not entertainment but true journalism. You can listen to BBC and still hold Republican views. But rather than offering misleading opinions, biased articles and blame, they tell you what happened, who did what, which politician said what, some analysis or interviews with real experts, and they leave it at that. They don't tell you how to feel; they tell you what happened and let you draw your own conclusions.

BBC World Service is an amazing station. Their news coverage is spectacular, and they have lots of shows about science, history, current events, social media, literature, art, and a variety of topics. They have a show called the Real Story where they interview panels of experts who have conflicting opinions about a different weekly topic. Maybe my description sounds boring but the show is *so good.* They have a show called the Forum where they explore the lives of famous people who lived in the past, Hard Talk where they give hard-hitting interviews to high-level public officials like former Florida governor Rick Scott or the president of Sudan, and BBC Trending where they talk about what's happening in social media. I taught my dad how to listen to the BBC World Service from his phone and he loves it. You can also use the app to search specifically for programs related to topics your loved one finds interesting. (The best app for BBC is called BBC iPlayer Radio; turn the dial to World Service on the front page and everything is there under *podcasts.* All of it is free.)

You don't have to be British to enjoy it. We're from the US and I think my dad has been to the UK maybe once in his life. Their coverage of the US is excellent, and probably better than any American source of media other than NPR or PBS. (PBS Newshour is also good.)

BBC will not radicalize or panic your loved ones. Their goal is education, not brainwashing. Fuck Fox News. They don't deserve the clicks or views or audience.

WBUR Boston has a great app which includes a lot of NPR shows, BBC shows, and other related public media. I've only been to Boston once in my life, so even if you're not from Boston the content is relevant. You could also find the app for your local NPR station.
My mother used to be very political on the other extreme. To give you an idea - my dad was in an induced coma when Obama was elected, and when he came out of it, he couldn't speak but he could trace letters onto my mom's hand. The first thing he spelled: "Who won?" 

Anyway, my mom did lose interest, yes. First in voting, though she still talked about hating trump - I think just the process of filling out a ballot was too abstract and confusing. She got mad when my sister tried to guilt her into voting in 2016. By last year, she had lost interest in watching the news entirely.
My grandmother used to be very racist towards black people specifically and in her much later years I think maybe she stopped processing things like differences in skin color or something? She no longer acted concerned by it or seemed to even register a noticeable difference in the appearance of a white person versus a dark skinned person of color
My FIL never was into politics, but he was super into horse racing (even betting online). He eventually lost interest in that when he couldn’t figure out the computer anymore. 

Hopefully, you can direct her to something more appropriate than that terrible channel.
My grandma used to be more of a centralist but leaning towards the left. Her alzheimer's has actually made her a lot more into politics. I think this is because of the 24hr news cycle. She can't remember that they had already talk about a subject on the news but she remembers being angry about it. Then when the news comes on again she just gets more angry about it. We try and get to not watch the news as much anymore. She used to watch the 4 o'clock, the 6 o'clock, and the 10 o'clock news every single day. Of course things get repeated on the news when they are major stories. Instead of her thinking it only happened once they are just repeating, she thinks it has happened 3 times that day. It all ends up making her more political.

 She has a hard time comprehending the news as well. For example, whenever the news brings up a bill going up for vote, she thinks it has already passed. She confuses people too or doesn't fully understand that something is actually good.

Luckily, my family are all on the same side of the political spectrum so it doesn't cause us discomfort when she gets really political. We do try to limit how much she watches the news. One thing we have started is our whole family watch the world news on abc every night. We pause the tv after segments and explain it to her and let her ask any questions she has. It's really funny because whenever it's 5:30 she yells "David is on!" Even when my Mom and I are just talking about the news by ourselves we still start stuff with "Did you see on David tonight..."

Anyway, from my experience they will get more political. However there are ways to combat this if it makes you uncomfortable or them upset. TV parental controls help a lot. Watching the news together to explain helps. Limiting what type of news they consume (international news, national, local, weather, community based).
[removed]
My mom did the opposite. Her caretaker company kept sending immigrants, and my mom was so embarrassing. She has two Hispanic women she loves now. We figured out that it was heavy accents that bothered her because she could not understand them and processing is already hard for her. The poor Haitian woman she made stand outside until a cab came for her. She couldn’t understand why she was there, and she didn’t understand her attempted explanation. My dad is an immigrant (now citizen for decades) and barely spoke English when they married 48 years ago . This is new
The news station is using the disease to take advantage of millions of people. They know that out-of-touch elderly people without ability to separate fact from fiction are consuming their propaganda by the bucketful. I left my dad unattended in YouTube and he listened to a 30-minute infomercial full of gross misinformation claiming that he shouldn't wear a mask and that coronavirus isn't real. If you don't control the information that comes in, you hand over control to propagandists who don't have your interests at heart.
BBC and NPR are not liberal. They are neutral. There are liberal-biased networks like CNN which are the left equivalent of Fox News, and I didn't put those on my dad's phone.
It sounded to me like he had been listening his whole life, not just elderly.
I do appreciate that. I just think taking the familiar away and choosing who they are is wrong, even if we don’t agree. If it’s due to him being upset , that’s fine, but then don’t say it like it’s because you hate Fox. That’s the part I didn’t like. They’ve lost so much of who they are already, the bad and good parts.
