Before you talk to a social worker consider talking to an attorney. You can even try Legal Aid to start with. While you're no longer in a position to set up a trust for the assets an attorney will probably make you feel better about divulging financial info, etc. Especially since you already have concerns about a county or state social worker.  An attorney can also help you set up Powers of Attorney and other vital legal documents, if you haven't already done that. 

My mother was able to get some home health care covered by Medicare after her doctor put in the order. She got PT and OT but no help with housework, bathing, meals, etc. I did all of that. Medicare (in almost all cases) will not cover assisted living or basic nursing home care. They will usually only cover skilled nursing and then only for a fixed amount of time.
Elder services often allows a chat with an elder care lawyer for free. The one in my mom’s town did.
I'm in Oregon too and I second the recommendations to seek an elder law attorney. Social workers most likely don't have the information you are looking for  -  at least I haven't found any who has financial experience in regards to long term care. Contact your county department of aging for a list of all kinds of resources in your area from housing, to respite, to elder law referrals. I got a lot of info from the Clackamas county department when we were just starting out on this journey.
I also am an in a similar situation, in Clackamas County Oregon as well.  I have plowed through the available social service resources, including the VA, to get answers; my first inclination was to speak with a social worker but that rendered very little useful information.  My experience and the knowledge gained led me to have to consult an elder law lawyer.

From what I gleaned from the attorney, gaining conservatorship is the primary course of action.  The assets you've been granted cannot be touched after 5 years, however there is a 6 month spend down where the fees will have to be paid out of pocket before Medicaid kicks in.  My father in law consulted an elder law attorney when his father started showing signs and they placed all of their assets in a trust in his name, this prevented the assets from being touched after the lookback period.

Honestly I have found few resources that will provide much more than someone (caregiver) coming to the house 2 days a week for approx. half a day.

As far as waiting lists go for memory care facilities, we found that there are plenty of places/beds available, even with covid.  We found a memory care facility for our grandma within a few weeks of searching and vetting.  I wouldn't say its a bad idea to look in the area you would like placement and give them a good interview/sniff test, as well as establish how much it is going to cost you out of pocket before Medicaid kicks in.  The availability also depends on where you are located; if you're in the PDX area you shouldn't have to worry, however the more rural you are the fewer beds available, and the farther away they will have to be placed.

Good luck and best wishes!
