I asked my mom to help me write a letter to the family of the person she would end up killing if she kept driving.
I would highly recommend looking into Teepa Snow’s videos on dementia and driving. She uses a positive approach to giving up the keys and diverting attention away from driving instead of using scare tactics or physically taking the car.
[deleted]
I know you won't want to do this and I understand but call the police on him next time he drives. You may save a life
If you are in the U.S. then his doctor can have the motor vehicle department suspend his license.
I didn’t. I told the motor vehicle beach that they needed to retest him because I had serious concerns.

That coupled with the official dementia diagnosis sealed it and they took it away.

I feel zero sympathy because he could kill someone.
Excellent idea!
[deleted]
We just said the DMV pulled her license.  She’s still sad, but it worked.  Her doctor did say she shouldn’t drive. But , for awhile, my brother in law pulled her battery wire and we said it was broken
Take the battery out and say the car doesn’t run. Might buy some time.
I have a patient who has a video from his neurologist explaining why he can’t drive anymore (“your brain doesn’t process information the way it used to) and it works very well! Wife shows it every time he perseverates on driving.
My wife "lost" her keys (in my briefcase).

Yeah, just take the keys away.
My moms Dr did a similar thing when i asked if she should drive,   He said, the DMV should test her first, and asked if she had her Will in place. then he asked how much she had set aside for the people she would likely kill.  She had been ready to go to the DMV, she  seems to have reconsidered. Lots of folks had advised me to just hide the car.
Thanks so much - will take a look!
I have had an aunt with ALS and my dad now has FTD. I feel for you so much. Do you need any support?  I don’t have much but can send some delivery food etc. I know you didn’t ask for anything so sorry if that is overstepping, but I can’t think of a tougher situation. DM me if you want.
Thanks so much for all the info, and I'm so sorry about your Dad.
A childhood friend was killed by a woman who should no longer have been behind the wheel. Made the decision to report mom to the DMV really easy, inspite of the fact they don't keep who reported you confidential in my state. Fortunately mom gave up the keys before the DMV got the letter so no fall out. But bad drivers definitely kill.
Having to stop driving is often very upsetting for people. Loads of possible reasons why, including a loss of identity or independence. Add in that cognitive problems can cause someone to feel persecuted or insulted when told they can no longer drive as they just don't understand the situation. Quite understandably lots of people are left angry and bewildered, or many people feel very sad. It is a milestone in someone's life that is not welcomed.

All the above can hold true despite a very real need to stop someone driving because they are no longer safe to do so. It's not asking too much to feel a little sympathy.
We did something similar with my grandmother. Told her one of the grandkids in a different state needes the car. Worked very well.
His want to drive is far less important than the possibility of killing someone. 

That in no way means I don’t have empathy for the frustration and embarrassment that goes along with having that privilege taken away.
this worked with my mum who doesn't have dementia but has a severely narrowed field of vision due to glaucoma. She only was able to give up the car when one of the grandchildren "needed" it. My dad who had dementia was a different story. In Australia you have to have a doctor's certificate to keep your license each year after you turn 70. When the doctor said no one year, he yelled at my mum so bad and was convinced she'd gotten to the doctor behind his back. Complete nightmare, since she then had to drive him everywhere and he criticised her driving so much every time that she would end up in tears.
The two are mutually exclusive of our another.  You take the keys away for safety, but that in no way diminishes the sympathy you should feel for someone losing a key piece of their independence.
