Mine never did agree to testing, except once. By the time his appointment arrived the following Monday he was back to refusing to go and became hyper violent so we never tried again. He's been diagnosed now, but only because he's long past the point of even knowing what dementia is. He thinks he's 31, but in reality he's 70.

You could try contacting his doctor first and let him know what's up, he might be open to a plainclothes house call if necessary. This was how my grandpa was diagnosed, as their doctor just pretended to be a family friend.
So sorry!  Go see his doctor on your own without telling yr dad, tell the doc your concerns, ask if the doc could send your dad a letter requesting / recommending he needs to come in for "The Routine Over 70's Check-up" or some such.... Look on the Dementia .org & Alzheimers .org websites or call the telephone helplines for some tips or ideas.  good luck!
It can be really hard in my experience. But my dad had been really abusive to us as kids so I think standing up to him was a lot harder for us. Getting the government to take his license away turned out to be too little too late.
I agree with the other commenters. 

My Grandad knew something was up but didn’t want to go to the doctors. My Gran was worried and at one of her own appointments, she spoke to her nurse practitioner. The NP phoned my Grandad and asked him to come in for a “blood test”.
There is medicine and therapy to help slow the process down. The sooner he is tested, the better results he can hope for. There is no guarantee obviously but it can help. If he’s only early stages, maybe you can tell him this and reason with him. We had hired someone to come in and help us. She worked in a memory care facility and had experience helping patients this way. We weren’t able to benefit from this, because the seriousness of his mom’s condition was largely hidden by his father. When he fell ill and passed is when we learned how far into this she already was. Good luck and I hope that you convince him. If not, maybe you can get his dr to help you.
Thank you everyone. I’ve had a splitting headache since this happened. I’m going to give his doctor a call and try to set something up. Thank you all for your help.
my mom made appts for both him and her, so they both showed up to their pcp who has a geriatrics specialty as well. hers was a routine diabetes check but she pretended she was getting memory tested too as a routine appt. he failed his paper test or whatever first test is with pcp. got referred to brain scan that does show something. went back to pcp for results. next step is a 4 hr brain scan then neuropsyc testing. everything is so slow bec of covid delays.
OP this route often works, it might also help if your mum does the tests as when so your dad doesn't feel picked on.
I never knew a pwd could go past the early stages undiagnosed solely due to their refusal to get checked. My father is at early stage and I'm facing this question of "how do we get the **** tests done?" -- Very very very eye opening, thanks for sharing!!!
Thanks for the feedback I’m gonna see if my mom can do the same thing.. thank you
Yeah he was very adamant there was nothing wrong, we went with it for a while hoping he'd get looked at willingly but what we now suspect was a long-standing UTI sped him out of the awareness stage very quickly.

This was definitely handled poorly by us, but with him still being ambulatory and violent it was that or keep the house we rent intact. Lousy call either way.
