It's quite common and most agree it's due to deterioration in the impulse control part of the brain. 

Talk to his physician ASAP. There may be some medication that can help. But in all seriousness, please do what you can to help him. People who care for the elderly work hard enough as it is and they absolutely do not deserve to be sexually harassed on top of it. Plus, if he continues the people who care for him have every right to drop him as a client and then where will he be?
Yes. Especially with frontal lobe dementia. His caregivers need to be firm with him that his actions are not okay. It is very common though.
It is but that’s all I’ve got. I’m sure someone else will have much more info. My dad was a crumpled up version of himself.
My brother in law's dad was all over the ladies in the home he was in. He was even getting aggressive to the point they were going to give him the boot. I don't know what came of it. Aside from medication, I'd be interested to know how that could be controlled.
I have BVFTD type dementia and yes I’m hypersexual. My wife is good keeping me from embarrassing myself and others. We have good friends who understand. Thankfully we’ve been married for 46 years and in an open relationship for 38 years.
Yes, part of dementia can be the loss of all of our social filters.  Inappropriate sexual behavior is not uncommon.  I had a friend whose dad would masturbate in public, so it could be worse.
Different country, so different options, but we've had cases where we would suggest the family agree with hiring some female company. 

Sexwork is legal here, so it's a simple as ordering, explaining the case and paying. It's not used often. 

Other options are porn, massages to help fill his need for intimacy, and giving clients space in their room when they start masturbating. They may be old, but they are still people and they still have regular needs.
There are medications that actually cause hyper sexuality. I agree with the other people here commenting, talk to his physician. They can help. There is also a mouth swab that can be performed to tell you what medicines are best for him.
You can get hormone therapy from the doc and a male caregiver if need be.
Can he just get a male caregiver?
Thanks for the advice! His caregiver is in the brink of dropping him because of repeated occurrence of sexual harassment. I have this idea that to buy him a life-size sex toy and lube to fuck with and to fulfill his fantasies.
She is assertive and firm but he is persistent!
What is he like with his current condition?
I have this idea that to buy him a life-size sex toy and lube to fuck with and to fulfill his fantasies.
Woah! His condition is much worse and did he get charged?
Thanks for the suggestion! Her daughter will actually schedule an appointment to help him.
By all means give that a try, if you think it would help. But I don't know that this behavior is strictly due to sex drive. I think it's more of a "loss of social filter" kind of situation. Is it possible he doesn't really want actual sexual contact but it's more his thoughts running away with him?
He will continue to do so. We use to have a client that our CAREGivers couldn't bend over in front of or he would grab their butt. We finally put male caregivers with him and he stopped.
Dead
Sorry. I didn’t what else to say. Was being the defining word.
Holy hell. I just saw this. It's funny because it's soul crushing.
You’re welcome! We are on long term hospice. The nurse that got us started told us about both of those things.
It’s a mix of both.
This! My cousin's dad was very sexually inappropriate with female caregivers and also very vocally homophobic and racist. She hired the biggest gay man she could find at the agency and that literally shut her dad down cold!
Thanks for the idea!
