High intelligence can often hide the symptoms for a long time, until they can no longer keep the facade up. That's when you suddenly see them crumble away, especially if a move to a care facility is necessary. They've lost their faculties, and their well-known surroundings and suddenly they are so very lost. 

I'm sorry for your loss, but also consider it a blessing that the illness wasn't drawn out any longer.
[deleted]
My mom also declined very rapidly. She was driving, cooking and no issues other than her memory was getting worse last September. By November we had started her in Daycare and by April unable to walk or do anything without an aide. It has all happened so fast and now she is close to final stage, barely eating or talking. My mom had started a drug research study in October so I have always has my suspicions that it cause the rapid decline. Luckily she wasn’t able to finish the study due to COVID.
My dad went from being arrested for hitting a cal trans worker to dead in less than a year. It was traumatic to say the least. 
He drove through the work site because it had been his daily route for years and he had dementia. I’d been trying to get his license taken away but that’s a lot harder than you’d expect considering he’d already been in an accident six months prior.
Pretty much. It affects everyone differently, so while it may not be the norm, it does happen and isn’t unusual.
Sorry you lost your grandmother.  I think everyone's journey with dementia is unique.  There seems there is no normal timeline for things that happen.
I just lost my mom and it was very unexpected also. So heartbreaking. She had it for the past few years and then just suddenly started going downhill and barely eating etc. some folks are different. I have friends with loved ones that it’s so rapid from the onset it doesn’t take long. My grandmother never even knew us for the last 5 years of her life and was in a dementia unit and we prayed she wouldn’t have to keep suffering. She had one arm frozen up and out at an angle and had to scoot around in a wheelchair, they couldn’t operate because she was so fragile. It was awful. 5 years like that! Not to be cruel but I believe in euthanasia and I’m definitely checking out before this happens to me. My great grandmother had it to. I always thought they didn’t know, but my mom did, she talked about what was happening to mind. Life is hard..
I don't know that it's normal per say, as different types of dementia run their courses differently, but it's not out of the ordinary. 

My MIL went from being mostly okay to dead in about nine months. But given how utterly awful those nine months were we were glad that she passed relatively easily. If her suffering had been drawn out longer I don't know how we would have coped. 

I'm sorry for your loss and the confusion surrounding it. This disease is a nightmare.
If you’re 81 your clock is basically run out and you’re living day to day. Not a lot in the body works normally at that age regardless of dementia.  I’m sorry for your loss.
Sorry for your loss. Like others have mentioned it’s not normal but not unusual. Was it Alzheimers?
This sounds exactly like what is happening with my grandma right now
I think it can depend on the type of dementia. I think some forms deteriorate the brain faster than others.
I think it is possible. My grandma went from talkative to forgetful to not speaking at all in a span of 1-2 years. It all went so fast. She was diagnosed with dementia back in 2019 but I think 3 events contributed to the hastening of her dementia at a fast speed - her aunt's death, my mother's depression and my brother's near-death accident back in 2018. Since then, she began to deteriorate. I'd like to think that maybe dementia is a really aggressive disease. Once it sets in, it strikes hard. We're still lucky that she's still alive after surviving a seizure and an infection. She's 80. Sorry for your loss. Dementia sucks. I couldn't bear seeing anyone suffer that disease.
Thank you. She was a great woman and I already miss her so much. 

Within the last 6 months she started her rapid decline. She was in and out of lucidity, but still walking and talking.  

She walked up until about a 2 months ago with a walker. She would forget where she was and what she was doing and other little things but she never forgot a person or face or name or anything. 

In fact, when I saw her the day before she died she said my name when I walked in she sounded happy to see me, that was the come to find out that was the last time she spoke before she died.
That is not normal in what I have experienced, could be related to the drugs.
I had the same suspicions as well. She seemed to get so much worse so quickly after she started the meds. I think at that point, 81 years old just let nature take it's course. My grandmother was the kind of person who couldn't sit still for 5 minutes she was always out and about doing things and super active. She told me many times her only fear in life was dying slowly and being stuck in bed so ultimately, I am happy she didn't have to live like that long.
My mother-in-law is declining related to dementia also rather quickly.  Did anyone say what type of dementia causes such a rapid loss of memory/cognitive function?

&#x200B;

Sorry, just saw your mention of the research study.
I’ve seen people say to contact the DMV about the situation to have a letter mailed out to him for retesting. Not sure if it works or not but it’s worth a try
Thank you for sharing your story and I’m sorry for your burden. Glad her MIL is Resting in Peace!  Would you be willing to share the ultimate cause of death?  I think that is what is so scary for me dealing with my 82 yo Dad who has PD related dementia. I just wonder what the end might actually look like for him. Thank you.
Thank you. No, Not Alzheimers, although she used to joke and say she had the "Ole Timers" lol. She never forgot a person or anything her long term memory was better than mine but she couldn't remember anything at all short term. You would tell her something and she would forget within seconds. In the end its for the best, living like that was her worst nightmare.
[deleted]
He’s dead and I did a lot more than that. I got the state involved and someone out to his house. It did not stop him in time. Then they wanted to put him in jail. It was a nightmare.
Hi! So her official cause of death was normal pressure hydrocephalus. She had a shunt placed in her brain about 14 months prior to death. But her last scan before death (four months?) showed severe loss of brain matter associated with Alzheimer's. There was no autopsy so we won't know for sure. 
It's very difficult to know what the end will look like as each case is different. Someone with Parkinson's has other risk factors, namely choking, from what I understand. Have you spoken to his neurologist? Ours told us that MIL's autonomic nervous system would shut down and that's exactly what happened. She just kind of "forgot" about eating, drinking, etc. Then she died.
> it's hard in a different way - crueler almost. 

Yea, I mean she was 81 you kind of expect it around that age and while I'm very sad she is gone and it hurts to imagine life without her I am happy she is not suffering anymore. That and she I'm grateful that she doesn't have to see anymore of 2020 lol :)
Hello.  I am so sorry for this stress in your life but thank you for sharing your story.  These dialogues were so helpful to me during my Moms 83 day dementia related hospice earlier this year!  Both my Mom and Dad had/have PD related dementia.  The way I got them both to give up driving is I called their insurance agent and told them of their dementia diagnosis. I then lied and told my Dad that the Neurologist was required by State Law to report the names of any patient still driving over the age of 65 with a dementia diagnosis to the Insurance Commissioner who in turn would share that database with all auto insurance companies. I said it was just a matter of time before the insurance company would cancel his insurance. Then I told him that if he drove without insurance and had an accident (even if not his fault) then he might be arrested and/or lose his house/savings.  That scared him into an immediate voluntary surrender of license and a move to a retirement community providing transportation services!  I usually don’t advocate for lying and I don’t know if some of this scenario I created might not be true but I know my parents would have been in accidents without this forfeit. Hope that helps someone out there.
Thank you for your openness. That’s so helpful. I will talk to neurologist soon. Many thanks.
every time ive posted a how to get my dad to do or not do somthing the answers on reddit have always included lying.  its just the only thing that works a lot of the time.

people that dont know people with dementia think its scandalous to lie to them but anyone that has ever been a caregiver knows its absolutely neccesary and the kind thing to do.
Me too! That sounds so smart. I wish I’d done that. My dad was a massively abusive asshole which made things so much harder. 
And I have a huge family half of whom were accusing me of trying to take the last few things he had from him. It was a big complicated painful mess. My mom said I was trying to get his money. 
In the end the lawyers did because we did not act in time.
Any time! I'm always happy to help, if I can.
I’m so sorry. I’m sure tho you are helping people by posting here for what that’s worth. My Mom passed in May and we are still coping from the after math of her peaceful passing. I can only imagine dealing with end of life under worse stress.  So sorry. Bless you.
Thank you. If we can help others not face the same challenges we did I’m happy.
My thing right now because I’m pretty sure at this point I’m headed down my fathers path is to get my home paid off before things get bad so my kids dad and them can still have a good life. I do not want to leave a mess like my dad did.
