The tip: Treat your parent like an adult. Don't call them diapers - eliminate it from your vocabulary and don't even mention it when you think she can't hear you, for starters. 

She might have dementia, but she's not stupid. 

And by all that's holy, if you go in there going, "OMG you've made a mess? Why did you do that/take it off?!" - she might not remember the incident but she'll remember that it's now a negative thing and that will stick with her.

Don't talk to her in a baby voice, be super sweet, or negative. Just say she needs a new pair of underwear without pretense and it should help. Switch to a different brand if you have to and buy the kind that looks as close to underwear as possible.

More expensive probably, but saves wiping crap off the floor and changing bed sheets.

I've posted in here before now & then -- I'm the one with dementia at 48. I posted earlier this year about this very thing. My onset is slowed down now with meds a little bit, but if you wanna start an instant fight with me, tell me something in a baby voice or try reverse psychology. I forget stuff, but at one point, I had an IQ of 145. I'm not stupid, and I highly doubt your grandma is either.

Kudos for you for taking care of your family. That's a super hard job to do, and tbh, I kinda hope I'm dead before I get to the 'someone putting Depends on me' stage.

But us dementia types are adults. We're smart, even under the fog we live under and as we progress, we KNOW something's wrong but can't put our finger on it.

Do yourself a favour: One night when she's tucked into bed and sleeping, pour yourself a coffee or tea or something, sit on the couch with a comfy blanket and remember who she was before this fucking disease took over her brain. Was she a teacher? A mother? Baked great pies? Maybe she was awful, I dunno. But remember who she was before and how you talked to her then.

That's how you talk to her now. If she liked music, play music. If she loved to sing, sing with her. If she loved to knit, bring her colourful yarn (without the needles!). 

Let her make a mess with finger paint. Let her jump in mud puddles. Reflect on that and then reflect on how you would feel if, while you were sitting there, someone put a thin cloth over your face. You can't take it off, and you can't acknowledge it. You want a drink of water, but you're not sure what the feeling is. You used to call it 'thirsty', but now the word isn't there, so you might ask for a can of soup instead. You know it's not right, but you're close. There's a veil over your brain. Or maybe like the worst hangover you've ever had without the migraine. Your thoughts just don't connect.

That's your grandma. I don't know what stage she's at, but at any stage, no one is gonna accept the word 'diaper'. The dignity is still there and she'll fight for every last sliver of it because she's lost everything else.

I sometimes forget what soap is for (I see this stuff on my hands and have no idea what it's for. Why is this bubbly stuff on my hands?) and a couple days might go by before I look in a mirror and see my hair is just all over the place and then tidy it up. But I don't forget my spaghetti sauce. I could make it in my sleep (and sometimes try!).

I still live alone and can sing entire songs from memory but couldn't tell you my phone number if I tried.

Makes sense? No. 

Neither does your grandma. And she'll fade away to nothing someday, which sucks. 

But in the meantime - it's just urine and a little battle of the semantics of a diaper vs. underwear. It's not a big deal, but it is when you're tired, I know it is. But just 'Oh, let's get you a clean pair of underwear gran.' and onward you go. She knows she's done something 'bad' and feels horrible, but has no idea why. A decade ago, she would have been horrified. She still is, but it's dull now, so worth with her.

I'm sorry I wrote so much, but I'm on the opposite side and am slowly starting to see the fuzz creep in, a bit at a time. I'm still independent, and grateful for it, and I bet she wishes, in those teensy moments of clarity, that she was too.

I wish you the best of times with your grandma. I know you're tired - that was a really frustrated post and you have every right to it. Take care of you. I mean it.
Try calling them briefs, rather than diapers.  Sounds a bit more dignified.  

Can you have her use the bathroom on a schedule, so she doesn't ever get the "I'm full and I have to go to the bathroom right now" feeling?
&#x200B;

I'd check out Teepa Snow's videos.   [https://www.google.com/search?q=teepa+snow+bathroom&oq=teepa+snow+bathroom&aqs=chrome..69i57.2535j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8](https://www.google.com/search?q=teepa+snow+bathroom&oq=teepa+snow+bathroom&aqs=chrome..69i57.2535j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8)

She also has her own website.  If you want to see her whole video section, you might be ale to borrow it from your local Area Agency on Aging.
I appreciate seeing it from your perspective. 

For the record though, we don't call them diapers-she does. She used to just call them undies, so we called them that but now she just cusses about diapers she has to wear. They are the pull ups with a fancy design on them, I think they could pass for plain underwear. And my brother and I have done a good job at maintaining a level head when these accidents happen, its just when we are away from her and start talking together.   That's why I left a frustrated post this morning hah. My brother called me at 6 when I was getting ready for work telling me about his night with her and the lack of sleep he had. 

She is too weak to do anything, she can't even stand on her own anymore. It's hard and horrible and I wish my Grandma wasn't gone-but she is.
I just want to say thank you for this post. It’s hard to remember it from their side sometimes. Mostly because it makes me cry because I miss her and it’s easier to focus on what has to be done and I’m 12 months beyond the point of overwhelmed. Take care.
Exactly what I was going to suggest. A toileting routine every 2 hours should help with this. Also, maybe suggesting a really cool “onesie party” where everyone wears onesies? She won’t have as easy access to her incontenient product. Is she fully incontinent? Does she need to be wearing the product? Is she going on the floor because she can’t find the bathroom? Maybe some additional signage in the house might help?
How the heck do you get them to do that when they are still aware of what’s going on? Genuinely asking because if I could it would solve some problems but even if she says I need to go to the bathroom she still won’t get up and go until it’s an emergency. My Mom is mid stage.
Ugh. So you're at THAT stage - everything will be a war. I am sorry - it's the hardest thing. I've taken care of people (worked in a hospital) and know what that is like. Ugh.

I'm glad you two are there for her, and don't feel guilty - I had the same thoughts of my dad when he went through hell before he passed away: that I wished he was already dead. It's a horrible thought but watching someone suffer for years when you're exhausted of everything being a fight is just horrid.

You're doing everything you guys can - your frustration bleeds through your typing. Don't be afraid to spell each other off and take a break, if you don't already. Go to a friend's house and steal 2 hours of their bathtub or something. Just whatever makes you relax. It's only a short time, but those mental breaks are worth their weight in gold. 

I know I don't know your situation, so there's generalizations, but I hope you can relax, even for a short bit. Those fights are just exhausting.
My grandma is in similar spot as yours. Have you tried adaptive clothing? The fasten in the back so she wouldn't be able to get to the diaper to remove it. We haven't needed it yet so I can't say how well it works but I didn't even know it existed until someone mentioned it to me so figured I'd pass it along.
You can call the hotline at [Alz.org](https://Alz.org) ([alzheimers.org](https://alzheimers.org)). 

I'd check out Teepa Snow's videos.   [https://www.google.com/search?q=teepa+snow+bathroom&oq=teepa+snow+bathroom&aqs=chrome..69i57.2535j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8](https://www.google.com/search?q=teepa+snow+bathroom&oq=teepa+snow+bathroom&aqs=chrome..69i57.2535j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8)

She also has her own website.  If you want to see her whole video section, you might be ale to borrow it from your local Area Agency on Aging.
Hmm I have not heard of that before! ill check it out! Thanks!
