My dad died twenty years ago, and having had chronic illness for many years and being displaced, I realized then, that my mother was on the verge of memory failure. I packed my bags and moved back to my hometown. Over eight years, I watched my mother's memory continue to fail, until one day, her boss told me that he was going let her go. I moved in with her, watched her lose her driver's license, and ultimately, all of her friends.

I have been in this house - the house I grew up in, for eight years. Last month was her 83rd birthday, and days later, we had to put her in a nursing home.

There is no respite for the home caregiver, but you just do what you have to do. Alzheimer's is a journey which never ends up well. Before my mom, we went through it with her mother. It is a sad, sad trek that always ends in death.

The question that I've had to ask myself over and over again, is who would stay with me, if I lost my mind?

The trauma of Alzheimer's caregiving, is not for weaklings. Good luck!
May I ask your age ? So sorry you are having to go through such devastation at this time of year.... and especially this particular year
Get your and you’re moms finances in order and make sure you get a lawyer involved to help. When my mom was diagnosed it was the first thing we did to secure she was eligible for Medicare. It is absolutely necessary so you don’t loose everything you and she has to nursing homes. It will go fast and you will be stuck with the bills. 
All the best OP,
 DM If you need someone to chat with. It’s a scary road, but I’ve been on it for a while and am happy to answer any questions you may have.
I am so, so sorry for you. I can really relate to your struggle. My own brother took his life over four years ago now, and my dad passed suddenly and unexpectedly in March of 2019. My mom was diagnosed over five years ago, and these days she is nothing like the woman who raised me. My Dad was her main caretaker until he passed, and until recently I was splitting care of her with a relative, with her staying at my home during my turn. My main advice would be to make a set plan. Figure out what you want to do, who is going to help and so on. If she is still somewhat mentally competent, speak with your mother. Ask her what her future care and eventual end of life care should look like. My mom straight told us she did not ever want to be in a nursing home, and we have tried to respect those wishes. My mother has recently been going more towards the paranoid and violent side of Alzheimer’s, which has been heartbreaking. It’s the main reason I have decided to no longer actively participate in her care, as I do not want my young children exposed to their nana acting the way she does at times. For now she is being cared for full time by a live in relative, with the condition that I will be giving that relative my moms home when she passes. Again I’m so sorry you’re going through this, if you need a friend to talk to feel free to message me.
Start with a local Association of Alzheimers. Often they can send a social worker to sit and process the future. Do not avoid the legal and financial plan you need to put in place today for the future help and care you may need up the road. Google Dementia Friends and Teepa Snow to show you tools and ideas to cope with the challenges you may face with this disease and the how and what to do. Follow other daughters and sons on social media to build a circle around you of people who are on this journey already. A great one is (https://www.stumpedtowndementia.com/) but know she is nearing the end of her daughter caregiving journey but going to her earlier posts will help see her path. There is also daughterhood.org. Recognize no two caregiving paths are the same so read a lot, ask a lot of questions, get to the heart of what makes your situation unique to explain to others what and why you need. I also know a growing field of dementia coaches - https://www.thememorycompass.com/ is one I have seen her work and she is phenomenal. Lastly, get into the habit of waking up each morning and saying one thing you are grateful for because it will begin to reword your brain and prepare for some challenging times ahead. {hugs}
I have no advice, only sympathy. I’m so very sorry.
If a person is a veteran, the VA will pay for respite care to a primary caregiver.  I think there's also a similar benefit if the person is a spouse of a veteran.  (Certain requirements must be met.)  I'm using that respite benefit and it's great for me, and my husband who goes to an adult day center really enjoys his time there, as he is very social.
Start with the Aging and Disability Resource Center in your area.  Help is available.
Thank you for sharing all of that. I keep reminding myself that this woman, my mom, has ALWAYS put me first in her life. She was/is the most loving and generous woman. I know that the sacrifices im faced with are intense but if the situation were reversed she wouldn't think twice about dropping everything to take care of me. She already has. My daughter, in turn, has told me that watching the relationship I have w my mom has been inspiring. And we (my daughter) are incredibly close as well. I know that shoukd this happen to me my daughter would do the same. The women in my family have always taken care of each other. It's what we do best. Im really scared. But it is truly an honor to be the one she can depend on. Its an honor that she thinks I can handle it. I hope I do right by her. I don't want to screw this up. On a selfish note, the only things that is a bummer is, im single now and hoped to maybe find someone for me. I hoped to maybe get married again or find someone to get old and stupid with. Thats not going to happen now probably. So,  I'm lucky I do have my daughter.. but still. Damn mom is STILL screwing up my love life lol.
Quick question, what were the deciding factors, after 8 years, to put her in a home? That must've been both terribly sad and maybe  a bit of a relief? Or no?
I'm 54. I feel like I'm 35. Ive always been the baby. Yeah. Im going to find us a place to live together but im not gonna lie.  Scared shitless and I feel like I'm about 12 years old at this particular moment. Buy mom is always been just the absolute rocket family in she so smart and so classy and graceful now... she's just.. scared and vulnerable. Dad died 2 months ago. Down hill ever since.  I can do it.. of course I  will do it all and take care of her she's my everything but,  I don't know where to begin.. completely overwhelmed. Tnx
Honestly can't thank you enough. I work at a detox.  Im a detox treatment specialist and what I do all day is trying to help people get into housing and get off dope so you know I don't make much money and that's another scary part so I appreciate the heads up.
I will and I thank you. All of you. Ive received more luv from all of you than all my friends combined.
Well said !
Thank you thank you thank you. That is so much good info. Bless.
Thank you. So much.
Does being a person in occupied Norway during WW11 count? Nah.. but her stories are amazing! Tnx tho.. sure that helps tons of others going through same thing
TY... the resources and advice I've received here has been beyond helpful. You just don't knew how much better I feel having heard from so many...
I am still suffering the consequences. Everything I did, and everything I knew, in the last however many years, I did for her. It's impossible to focus on anything else during that time.

Years ago, after my grandmother died from Alzheimer's, I promised my mom that I would never put her in a nursing home. Alzheimer's is progressive, and she has had chronic physical illnesses that have plagued her, her whole life. Finally, those illnesses caught up with her, but she no longer had the capacity to remember what was hurting her, and professional care became the only choice.
It looks like a lot of sound advice here on this particular thread. Take heed at those who seem very knowledgeable to it. I too am 54, and my mom has dementia at the age of 72 now 74. I can so relate my mother was the pillar of independence self made so to speak with her own beauty shop. Life seemed sweet until three years ago and she got lost driving to Haines city and had no clue as to where she was. It’s not easy keep your head up stay strong and if you are a faithful believer 🙏🏽
Absolutely. In my area we went to a legal planner, met with the lawyers, for some trusts set up (which I am in charge of) and removed her name from anything of value, though I’m sure there is much more my dad too care of. That includes cars, the house, etc. and put it in my dads name. You’ll need to do this before she is too far along and can no longer participate in these meetings. She will have to agree to hand it over to you or someone who you all trust.  Please reach out if you have any questions.
Also in that vein, speak to a lawyer about how to be your mothers legal power if attorney. You need that in order to make financial decisions, medical decisions, and even things like changing life insurance, bank accounts, and everything else. I’m 32, and honestly had been pretty sheltered from having to make grown up decisions (moved from my parents to my husband and have been a stay at home mom for the last eight years) and never realized how much I would need that power of attorney. Even to change her cable plan lol
There is so much more but do not want to overwhelm you. :) Just know, you will be her biggest advocate so when YOU feel lost or have questions, come to your community to ask. I swear there needs to be a What to  Expect When Your Parent Is Diagnosed with Alzheimers, and we throw you a Alz Party, rally around you and lift you up just like a new mother. You got this. 💪🏿
I saw one commenter say "the family caregiver has no respite" and I wanted to counter that perception.  There may well be similar programs where you are, not necessarily for veterans or widows of veterans.
I forgot to mention before, there's an ~~Alzheimer's subreddit here~~ (Doh!  this IS the Alzheimer's subreddit) and the Alzheimer Society (or one of those organizations) has a good online support group at [https://www.alzconnected.org](https://www.alzconnected.org/default.aspx)
You id like to stay in touch with ma'am.. if that's OK. TY 🙏💟
Absolutely I will. TY
Yes. Thank you. Hadnt got there yet. TY

0
There are simply no words for the luv i feel by all of you. I will definitely be reaching out. I wish some of you were local. Bellingham or Seattle area!!
Sure no problem
One of my purposes in life is to make sure those who take on caregiving never feel alone. It can be a lonely, isolating experience but promise there are others around you walking in the same shoes (~ 44 million people identify as a family caregiver in America). One more resource to find nearby support - look up “Memory Cafés near me”. These are places you and your mom can go and just be among people who understand and who are all at different points in their journey.
Thank you. 44 million. That really gave me perspective. We see the neurologist tomorrow to find out just where she is in this disease. What really hurts is that due to the pandemic and also my mom spent the last 6 months at my father's bedside (he was in hospice at home, he had a hospital bed in the living room and she slept on the couch and cared for him until he died) these 2 issues meant she was unable to be diagnosed. So, she has been sick while her husband was dying and keeping it together for him. She could've been treating this disease months ago. God, I hate what is happening to her. I'm all she has. I need help, mainly emotional support because I'm scared like hell at whats coming.  All of these redditors, total strangers like yourself, reaching out to give me links and ideas of places I can go for support has been unbelievably helpful and comforting so... thank you so much.
