In the home I work there are several approaches: good stable shoes, no carpets, chairs that are easy to get out of, always having the walker nearby, and sound/movement sensors. 

Please note that it didn't say: straps to tie them down. 

At some point falls are inevitable, and that's accepted here. Yes, hips do break, and yes, that usually means the end for that person. And that's okay. Keeping them alive until they've regressed into a permanent foetal position is not really what you want. It takes a long, long time before their reserves are truly gone, and it's a road filled with decubitus, fear and pain. That fase can take months, or even years. 

It can be really hard to accept it, but falls serve a purpose.
My grandmother is the same, see needs 24/7 supervision, yes I would strap her to the chair if no one is with her for her safety. Falls can lead to severe injuries.
Does she have and use a walker?  When is she falling?  While standing up or while walking?
I’m sitting in the hospital this very second. My mother fell tonight. She was walking with her walker and three people right beside her. We couldn’t catch her. She fell on her knee and is going to need surgery tomorrow. I caught her twice this week. I feel terrible now, but you absolutely can not catch them every time.
Does her medical insurance cover physical therapy? A few sessions with a good PT may help improve her balance...
Is it time for a medication adjustment perhaps?
I do agree. I accept that this is part of the process. I don’t want to strap her down, feels wrong, but I also don’t want her to end up in a hospital. We do make sure there’s nothing on the floor to trip on but losing balance just happens. She never used a walker so that won’t work now. Her dementia has progressed slowly but we’re clearly in a new phase that I’m trying to learn.
Thanks for your feedback, I appreciate it!
Seems so cruel but you’re right. We’ve been lucky so far. Thanks.
She never used a walker. She’s been very stable considering everything up until now.
Ugh I’m sorry to hear that. I hope she recovers quickly.
I’ll look into it. Thanks!
She’s not on any meds.
Chair restraints rapidly accelerated my FIL’s psychological decline. He was in a bad place already with the fog of a brain injury but when we put a lap belt on his wheelchair it seemed to totally spin him out. He had all kinds of imprisonment delusions and thought his caretaker (who was wonderful) was holding him there against his will. It was a hard time, and it was a fall which got him the brain injury to begin with, so another was inevitable. We should have let him go with that fall and not asked for extreme measures to save him. The two years since have been consistent heartache. The man we knew is gone. Whispers of him are all that remain in who we have now: a kind enough man who needs assistance with everything, and 24/7 monitoring.
Yes the best thing would be to always have someone near her, but if for example you have to go to the bathroom and no one can watch her, you have to protect her.
Well my Mom had dementia and as I understand it the meds she was on actually helped decrease her general agitation and increase her focus so she could sit and play a game or read a magazine for a bit instead of the constant up and down that the dementia induced anxiety causes. I’m not a doctor just a person who has dealt with dementia with both Mom and Dad.
There are a lot of meds that can help reduce falls with dementia. I think it would be worth asking her doc.
How do meds help with falls?
As far as I understand they only help until a certain point. We are using long term hospice. They took my bfs mom off of her meds because they just are not doing anything for her anymore. Her dementia has just progressed too far. It doesn’t hurt to talk to the dr though. Maybe there is something they can do.
