It broke me when my father asked for a job I didn't know what to do. In hindsight, I wish we just gave him a simple chore (like polishing silver) and paid him.
Can he make simple felt tie blankets? I used to work at a children's shelter and we'd have tie blankets donated by senior centers-- they were a huge need for us, as every single child was given one. Maybe if it was a really meaningful cause, he'd feel a bit more connected to a volunteer opportunity like this? If not, you could purchase funny/cool/trendy fabric (I'm thinking election related, team sports, holiday, etc.) and sell them on FB marketplace for very cheap as a gift.   


In that same realm, he could make a number of things for the holidays, depending on his ability at this time. Things like cookie mix jars, soup mix jars, homemade jams, salsas, flavored vodka, hand painted coasters, personalized wreaths (decorated in themes like cats, football, etc.), or I saw a "rocher sparkling pineapple" which is just a bottle of champagne/sparkling cider with ferrero rocher chocolates attached to the outside and made to look like a pineapple. Items like this could be sold on FB. (If doing a fresh food item, just be sure you check your local health codes).   


How does he feel about animals? Would he be willing to pet-sit ? Many people dislike leaving their dogs home all day, and might be really thrilled to have someone "babysit" their dog while they're at work for a small fee.   


I'd also make sure he has some hobbies/ interests in which he can invest some time. My dad (doesn't have dementia) recently moved to a home with a koi pond and it has, surprisingly, been a really time consuming hobby. He has like 80 fish now and there are a number of things that need to be done daily/weekly to manage the pond (can easily be tracked with a checklist, does not require much technical skill). I know some people with koi ponds eventually sell the fish so that is another potential income stream.   


I hope you find something that works for you/him!
He might be able to get on one of the language teaching websites like italki, not to be a teacher but being paid for English conversation practive. He'd probably have to be real cheap, like $5/hr but if he gets good feedback he could probably raise his rates over time to something like $10-12/hr. I'm not sure how English conversation practice goes compares to a teacher/student relationship but it's a possible avenue to explore.
I’m Sorry.   I feel like it’s impossible to not disappoint them in something.  Kind of like how parents have to screw up somewhere with their kids.

I can’t get the business settlement that will make my dad happy.  He’s absolutely tortured by his business partner cheating him too.  Repeats the day his business shut down over and over.  Logical me tells me I can’t solve everything and do right every time.  But yeah, a part of me still feels guilty.
Personally if my dad saved up enough he’d probs call a taxi and immediately leave so we couldn’t try that for him. That is if he will even enjoy that cuz of his suspicions.
Making something to sell online seems like a great idea.  I’m leaning towards something simple in paper mache cause he gets a weekly newspaper so has a lot of the materials.

My friend works at a food pantry as a volunteer and picks up free food leftovers no one else grabbed.  She could watch my dad for me if he volunteered there and maybe the free food would make him feel like he’s getting paid a bit.  That’ll have to wait till after the pandemic.
Thanks.  He actually is bilingual.  But dealing with the online stuff would be too hard for him.
that sounds awesome! I also just saw a great craft-- making cat scratching posts. If someone else built the frame, he'd just have to wrap/glue the twine. They can be made to look like cacti or palm trees or even martini glasses. People love that kind of stuff (I know I'm always on the lookout for affordable ones)   


Good for you for being proactive, and good for him for wanting to remain useful and productive!
[deleted]
well, I'm not sure how much time you spend with him  but maybe you could open up the program for him. Or get him a penpal or someone to zoom with from another country-- even if you lie and say they are paying him x dollars and hour but say it's getting paid to your paypal or whatever. and then you give it to him (if you have the capability for this. I'm considering something similar for my mom when my job situation stabilizes.)
Ooh, that cat scratching post sounds like a great idea.  I think I’ll have to look into that one.  My sister has a cat too so at least he can make it as a Christmas gift.

Thanks a lot.
This sounds like a great idea too.  I’m been really busy so Was delayed but will share all the ideas with him.  He’s really tough cause he has almost zero interests whatsoever.  But hopefully, he’ll like something.
I’m liking the selling something on Etsys or Facebook marketplace idea so I’m gonna try that first.  But if that backfired, I may just do as you are thinking and pay him myself
