My mother began symptoms around 60. She’s 65 now. I waited far too long to take real action. Lived with her for a long time. Just me and her in this big world. Smaller symptoms occurred like forgetfulness which I chalked up to age. And then eventually she was let go from her job she’d been at for 16 years. Then shit hit the fan. She’d wander the neighborhood. She’d call me scared to death that she was lost, but she would be sitting on her front porch. Started letting feral cats in the house (she had two of her own inside cats). Drained her bank account and hid the cash in random spots around the house. Started hoarding. Roaches and fleas Everywhere eventually. She called me one day and I came over to cook her dinner. She hadn’t eaten in days I’d guess. She weighed approximately 85 pounds at 5’ nothing. She cried asking me if I could take over her finances. Turns out she hadn’t paid Any bills in 8-10 months. Pulled out around 5k and hid all over the house. That was a fun treasure hunt... found half of it. 

Finally, I told her she had to be put in Supportive Living. Told her we need to get her healthy and out of that goddamned slum house. Thank god she had a 401k to help with the ALF rent. I applied her for disability, which she got two years later. Fortunately they backpaid everything and she ended up with Medicare and Medicaid which is fantastic for someone in her position, though it doesn’t help financially with Assisted Living Facility coverage. She’d gained around 30 pounds to a healthy 120 or so. She’s not a fan of living in a facility and having people do things for her since she’s always been a very independent single mother but hey... she knows it’s good for her in the long run. 

Feel free to ask any questions you may have about my experience.
My grandma had alzheimers for about 10 years before she died. It wasnt all that bad besides her needing a nurse to take care of her. She didnt go crazy or anything but she does keep repeating the same stories and talked to herself a lot. The last time I visited her a month before she died, she didnt know who I was anymore but she did know I was one of her grandson and was willing to talk to me still. She died of old age at 81 years old.
Might be FTD is she is younger than 65. That’s Frontal temporal lobe dementia.
Dementia has a lot of different dx's and Alzheimer's is just the one most people are familiar with. Also a dx can take years and maybe never, so don't focus too much on that. If anything, at your mom's young age, I'd be focused much more on differential diagnosis. Is one of her meds causing problems? Does she have a vitamin deficiency? And so on. 

And even if it is some sort of dementia, the course is all over the map and highly individual.

Anecdotally, my MIL was young at 68 when symptoms became too obvious to ignore. She was highly verbal until she died. But had a 6 second memory. You could walk into the room, chat her up, walk out, walk back in 6 seconds later, and she reacted like she hadn't seen yuo in ages.Her hygiene suffered greatly as she'd forget what she was doing mid toileting. She'd take meds and then a few minutes later take them again. Her dog died because she forgot she let him out into the snow drifts and he froze to death. She never got a formal dx other than "dementia." Other than she did not have Alzheimer's. She passed about 6 years after first going into the ER for hallucinations due to a UTI, and they dx'ed her as having dementia and wouldn't release her without some sort of in-home health care or memory care unit support. Ultimately she passed not from dementia but from metastasized cancer. 

Meanwhile my dad is 80 now and a few years ago started having symptoms closer to what you are describing. He's always been an introvert and not one to be chatty, but now he barely talks, just umms and hmmms. It started with him not being able to recall words. Initially he could read a book, you'd ask him about it, and he couldn't describe the plot because the character's names wouldn't come to him. Now he doesn't read at all. BUT he does have "muscle memory" in that he can still mow the lawn. Yet he doesn't know who I am any more. My MIL always knew who I was to the end, but we saw her more often. My dad lives farther away. My dad also frequently sets up passwords and forgets them and this drives my mom nuts. They did put him early on on some Alzheimer's drug and it did help a bit for awhile. Still he has no official dx, at least not of Alzheimer's. They think he may have had some strokes at some point.
Don’t look for answers about life expectancy here. The unknown is daunting and scary but you will get some answers and information soon from health professionals who know the details of your mothers specific case. Answers here may be wildly misleading depending on variables of your moms case and best to stick to facts and actual specific information.
This sounds very similar to my mother! First obvious sign was neglecting the checkbook register and she stopped adding things up. Looking back, there were more signs than that in retrospect, but that was the biggie. Two things that helped us. At that point, we sold her house, and she gladly moved into independent senior living. This is NOT assisted living. Independent living is active seniors living in basically an apartment with a community dining area. Lots of activities to do. My mom was younger than average, but absolutely loved it because it drastically simplified her life. No more house to take care of, no more yard maintenance, no more pool maintenance etc. 2nd great thing we did at that time was set up a trust with me and my brother and my mom set as trustees. Then I took over her finances so she didn’t have to stress or worry about anymore. My brother and I are close and see eye to eye on her finances. This is key if trustee role is shared. Some families crumble with shared financials. Some family members can steal etc. so make sure you guys are on same page if this is the case.  She managed 4 years in independent living and loved it. She seemed so relieved when she got rid of most major responsibilities. Covid isolation since May really made her decline though. We moved her into memory care assisted living September 1st. Overall she is happy. Removing the big responsibility of house maintenance and finances really put my mother at ease when it all started though. Hope that helps you! :)
Yeah my mom got it onset 62.
It’s really hard. They call it the long goodbye because you lose parts of that parent a little at a time. I didn’t know the last time my Dad ate dinner with us would be the last time he could sit at the table. Things like that. Assisted living or in home care is crazy expensive. It’s hard, and when they are gone it’s a relief.
Yup.
