I wouldn't recommend crushing it up. Xanax is incredibly bitter. Could you tell her its something that will help the MRI see what's going on more clearly and efficiently so it won't take as long?
Ask her MD for Ativan. Very similar to Xanax and dissolves in water with no taste.
Just for a totally different perspective, don’t stress too much about making sure this happens. If you can get her to take the Xanax, great. She will probably chill out enough to do the scan. If not and she absolutely won’t do it, just keep in mind that it’s not the end of the world. The scan will probably confirm what you already know. And the neurologist will tell you that it may help to identify the type of dementia because different meds may help for different types, but there is no cure for Alzheimer’s (which is 80% of dementia) and she probably will not be missing out on treatments if they are not able to do the scan. 

We went through this with both my FIL and my MIL. For my FIL they did the MRI and said it was Alzheimer’s. My MIL absolutely refused and would not do it. At some point my husband decided the wear and tear on her was not worth it. They both ended up being put on the same meds.
Do you really need an MRI?  It's dementia or Alzheimers.  Looking at her brain won't find a cure.  Causing her extra duress won't solve anything.  My Dad had Alzheimers.  My Mom now is showing signs of dementia.  No MRI was ever recommended.  It is what it is and there is no cure.
Xanax is bitter and very nasty tasting.  I don't think sneaking it to her in her food is going to work.  Can you not discuss with her the need to rule out other possible medical issues and that's why the need for an MRI?  Fear of the unknown is worse than knowledge of reality.  Talking about options other than "nursing homes" may help reassure ner as well.
you might consider getting vitamin capsules if she is okay wih that. then the day of you can give her a capsule filled with the smashed up xanax (though I believe this makes it hit faster so maybe not the beat idea.) The other poster said it tastes bitter so maybe somethink like a kale salad and mixed in with a small amount of salad dressing? Or make something and ask her to taste it but give her a spoon with it mixed up with something else. Maybe that way if it's bitter she'll either just swallow it or still get some down beflre sputting it out? a really sweet tomato sauce could work to at least partially cover the bitter.
Hmmm...  I think it's better if you crush it and mix it in her food. At least that's what my aunt does when she gives my grandma medicine. My grandma can no longer swallow pills like she used to due to dementia. Maybe it'll work that way. I don't know about the taste though. 🤔
Just an FYI sneaking meds that she doesn't want to take into her food is not only incredibly illegal (and the state will come down hard if they find out your doing that) it's also completely morally wrong.
You can also buy empty jell caps to disguise the appearance. Some meds are in liquid form that will mix in well. 

The thing is there are literally dozens of medical conditions that can produce dementia. Some of them are detectable on an MRI. Others are not. Some are even treatable. 

Perhaps you could convince her that you are not looking for an excuse to "put her away". That may be her experience. Talk to her about it. She can feel her brain falling apart and she is terrified. She needs reassurance that she is loved and that she is safe.

If you have never prayed much, now would be a really, really good time to start. She and the entire family will need it.
Oh, I like this and think it might work. Thanks!
Thank you. We know it won't cure anything, but it could at least help us know if she had a mini-stroke, or out is something more severe, or different.

And really it will give my wife some firmer ground to stand on when she's ready to confront her mother about this.

Right now her mom is in denial and breaks down, or knee-jerks a response, when we remind her that we just told her something, or she just asked that.
MRIs can help show which area of the brain is being affected. Not absolutely necessary, but helpful with showing progression. My MIL gets one every year or so.
I second this! Imaging het brain is probably not necessary, the symptoms have progressed to a stage where they are apparent in het behaviour.
Medically we're not expecting any breakthroughs, or monumental new info. At the very least I'm hopeful that it will give my wife firmer ground to stand on when she is ready to confront her mom about her cognitive decline.
We tried that this morning.
The doctor wants to check out all of her patients of a certain age.
They probably won't find anything.
This is a routine check.

You'd think there was a track & field event with the number of hurdles she produced.

I don't remember seeing a doctor.
I don't think the MRI technician knew what they were doing.
The nurse said things to me that I didn't like.
The MRI machine looked old.
They put a pierce of parchment paper other my face and I couldn't move my hands.


My wife continued to calmly explain that nurses receive training, and MRI machines are kept in good working order, and doctors requested the MRI (not us), and they're perfectly safe.
We're always cooking something. A spoonful of "tonight's pasta sauce" could do it.
Thanks!
I don't know about "incredibly illegal", but in a case like this "completely morally wrong" is absurd.
good luck :)
Thank you!

You want to talk morally wrong? How about a mother who emotionally and and verbally beat her husband and only daughter into submission with her overdramatic bullshit for decades. Then distances her immediate family from every extended family member they have, only to lean on her daughter like a fucking crutch when her brain goes to Swiss cheese. Then has the balls to continue the petty, passive aggressive, abuse.

Fuck her.

Just an FYI, anyone has the right to refuse meds not court ordered. Sneaking Xanax into her food so she would be more willing to do an MRI would count as chemical restraint, and could land the OP in jail and on a list.

If OP can't morally or ethically handle this, past relationship or not, then OP should not be treating her. Period.
Just an FYI, anyone has the right to refuse meds not court ordered. Sneaking Xanax into her food so she would be more willing to do an MRI would count as chemical restraint, and could land the OP in jail and on a list.

If OP can't morally or ethically handle this, past relationship or not, then OP should not be treating her. Period.
