My Dad (94) is not quite this bad but similar. Their brain is deteriorating. It looks like it's shrinking and the two halves pull away from each other. This can cause a serious issue with communication. They use the wrong words or phrases/concepts. To them it makes sense. their brain is always trying to keep their own 'reality' together. Im guessing that if it doesnt then there are some bad cognitive results. My dad will argue for things that make no sense or that simply arent true. best bet is to play along as best you can and note whats going on and ask the doctor in private.  You can play along and maybe ask little questions and try to understand but dont panic if it makes no sense. 

What happens if you pick up the object and give it to her?  Are they the same objects each time and what happens once she gets them or does she not get them herself. If theyre important in some way to her then she probably attaches importance to you having them. My grandpa used to eat cough drops like candy and he would always offer me some. 

Falling, probably the number one fear. Does she use a walker? Look at her living space and see if you can move out of the way or put away anything that may lead to a trip and fall, be fallen on, or make her take more steps. Can you keep her to a smaller space? meaning the things she needs shouldnt be a long walk from each other. maybe try centralizing them so theyre within arms length or very short walk. 

Does she understand her situation at all.  I assume she has been diagnosed. There are some good resources online. The one below has been a great help to me.  best of luck.

[https://www.griefhealingdiscussiongroups.com/](https://www.griefhealingdiscussiongroups.com/) good resource here.
Have you heard of dysphasia? It’s a common symptom of dementia and can be both expressive and/or receptive, meaning words spoken come out jumbled and words we speak can also sound jumbled to the person with dementia. If the onset of this increased confusion appears sudden, it’s important to rule out delirium which could be caused by an underlying infection. Bloods and urine sample could rule this out. Important to review medications also which may be increasing confusion. Happy to advise any further and hope things get better :)
Just want to send love and support. My grandmother was like this a lot when she passed. Play along if you can, as others have suggested but also keep an eye out for other underlying issues. I know when my grandmother got really nonsensical it was usually because her oxygen was low or she had a UTI.

It may not be the case in your situation (it isn't in all) and I don't know if it will be any comfort but my grandmother suffered from dementia for a long time before she passed and I spent so much time with her I actually began to understand her language in a way? Like not logically -- what she was saying often didn't have a lot of logical sense behind it. She had aphasia and dementia so she would mix up words and also be talking about stuff from years ago, stuff that wasn't there. But emotionally I was able to understand what she was looking for, how to talk with her, how to calm her down. I started getting a better feel for when she was actually trying to tell me something she really needed or that was really happening and she was just mixing up words vs when she was just really saying whatever.

 A lot of it is just playing along but in way that's not just dismissive like "yeah ok sure gran...the chickens allll the chickens. Yep" but more like "oh chickens? Where are you seeing chickens? I wonder why that would be? I've never seen chickens in the house before that is weird! Don't worry though, we've got the dogs so the chickens won't bother you."  Playing along/asking questions like that can also help you sort out if they are actually in need of something and switching words or if they are just disconnected from reality. Like in that example, if my grandma was using chicken to replace a different word she was really trying to tell me, and I'd talk to her like that, she'd be like "no no the chickens!! You know the chickens!!" And then give me some more clues to what she actually meant. 

You just sort of start naturally start learning the kind of responses they are looking for/would be most helpful over time. I know there is such a strong desire to understand what they are truly trying to say -- to logic it out -- but sometimes (it least in my case) there is not always a real logic behind it all the time (all though sometimes there is!) and it was better for her when I just went along. But of course everyone is different; I know this is not the case with all dementia. 

You sound like a wonderful person. I know how hard this is. Thank you for taking care of her and loving her ❤️ if you never need help or support please don't hesitate to PM.
I know its hard but try to put the pieces together of what she wants. Or maybe there is an underlying health issue she can't express and should get checked out by the doctor.
Usually if i pick up what she's referring to she will just look at it and call it whatever letter she is calling it. For instance, i keep a towel on her walker and she will call it "N" and ask me to put it back down.

I have removed anything that could be a fall hazard,
The facility she's in actually wanted to restrain her so she can't stand up, but i don't think thats a good idea at all. 

She doesn't really understand, she has no short term memory so she doesn't realize what she's doing.
Thank you! No i have never heard of that, but it's definitely something i will look into. We frequently have her tested for uti's, but she only gets bloodwork done every couple weeks. Infections are also a big concern for us due to her having some heart problems.
She has an appointment next wednesday! I will be bringing this up, I just wasn't sure if others do this or how serious it is. We're also working to get her transferred to a facility that can keep a closer eye on her!
Sounds like you can just play along. maybe theres no real 'point' to what shes saying or asking but shes just asking to be asking. maybe shes validating what she calls the item. Kind of like when a child picks up a towel and says 'towel'. 
I dont like restraint either. Not at all. 
My Dad is constantly scheming. theres a new plan and a new issue constantly. Oftentimes makes no sense whatsoever. I've fixed many problems that dont exist. But he's happy. 
hang in there, I know it can be rough. Do some research and ask questions. The more you understand what may be going on hopefully the less concerning it is.
Recurrent UTIs will lead to delirium which manifests as increased confusion, disorientation, hallucinations etc as you may have already witnessed. Symptoms should subside as the infection is treated but a ‘resolving delirium’ can take quite some time to improve. It may just be that her presentation is due to her dementia though, keeping her occupied with good social contact is important. Hopefully the assisted living centre you mentioned has opportunities for activity.
That will help so much! Just take it step by step. Sometimes they tired of a certain story or delusion after a while. Just acknowledge it, maybe say you can stand up and sit down for her instead when you are there. Join in and sometimes that can help in its own ways if it instead related to a physical health issue.
Unfortunately they don't which is why we're working to transfer her somewhere else. The aides only check on her a few times a day, the care there is horrible.
Or maybe you can buy her block letters to bring next time you go!
I will try that! Thank you!
It sounds as though better care provision would be beneficial. All the best of luck.
