I absolutely recommend doing this. It’s helped us immeasurably. We don’t hide the cameras, they are very visible and we show them to the caregivers when they come in and explain what they’re for. They seems to take it in stride. We use Wyze cameras. We don’t record though, just livestream. We have them in all rooms except the bathrooms.
We did this.  I caught a few times when she fell and since we could see and hear what was going on we could advise her why using her phone to turn the channel on the TV wasn't working.  We asked her ahead of time and only used it sparingly.
As someone who lives with and takes card of their mom with dementia, skip the security system and find her round the clock care. Intermittent forgetting isn’t a real judge unless someone is with her 24/7. Savvy people with dementia can work the system
We have Wyze plug in cameras in my 87 yr old father’s  house and they are awesome. He has vascular dementia and all of his kids are able to check on him. It has been eye opening watching and listening to his shenanigans and they have been very helpful in gaging his decline. He fell 3 weeks ago and is now in skilled nursing rehabbing with a new hip.

Edit: we also have helpers for him and they know we have cameras installed.
I wanted to care for my dad in his home. After talking to his doctors and caregivers, we decided to move him before the dementia had gotten too bad. We were advised they it's better to move them before so they aren't completely disoriented after. We actually found a place where he lived independently until he couldn't. Then we moved him 3 floors down into the locked dementia floor. We set up his room identically so he didn't even notice.
I’ve got one in my Mum’s kitchen and one in the lounge. They are really reassuring for when she has forgotten to charge her mobile and has unplugged the landline. I can see her going about her day. Also if I tune in at meal times I can see if she’s eating a decent amount. I can also speak to her using them which has been helpful. I just searched for mini cameras on Amazon. They both use an app on my mobile. Make sure they definitely use wifi.
Yes! My grandmother who has dementia, lives with my aunt, early on she had the NEST camera  system installed in her house to check in on her thru the day while she was at work. Especially for things like falling. If it happened and she was at work all day without knowing my grandmother could've been on the on the floor al day. But it also helps with making sure she's eating and hasn't wandered out of the house. I really recommend that system. It relies on wifi, but you can add as many camera's as you want, and there is sound. You could speak thru if you wish, but we don't want my grandmother to know she's being watched. For her dignity and to save further paranoia.

To note with a nursing home, they may require to be in control of any of your grandmother's asset's. So if she has saved any kind of retirement/inheritance it will be in the hands of the nursing home under the guise of her "care". Any of the other options may be better in that regard.
I don't recommend this at all. Do you know what type of dementia she's onset to? Sometimes if they have a sundowning episode, they tend to grow agitated with lights and become paranoid. It would add on distress to the confusion.
Yes I recommend for peace of mind for everyone. I have had best luck with logitech after trying a few others. So easy to set up. Reconnects if power or wifi go down and different trusted people can be part of account.
We put one on top of mom's refrigerator. The house is pretty open. We can see most of the house, part of her bedroom,  no bathrooms. She knows it's there, I can listen, and talk to her. She had lots of family really close,  we all call/visit often. She's doing good for now, this just gives us peace of mind. The camera is called littlelf. It also is able to be moved up, down, and side to side. It has an app, very easy to set up and use.
I'm planning to use wyze cams to do the exact same thing.  For the bathroom, I'm planning to plug the camera into a wyze plug that way I can keep it unplugged and off most of the time but then turn it on when I really need it.

 I'm getting the door sensors too (as soon as the new modrl is out).so that I know if he starts to wander at night and am planning to put one on the refrigerator and wshing machine too so I know if she is eating and washing his clothes.  Got a smart toothbrush.  Was too cheap to spring for the wifi one but that would be better as bluetooth he has to bring his phone into the bathroom to transmit the data even though it's recorded by the toothbrush itself to know.  I've also got leak detectors in case he starts leaving water running.  Changing the faucets to autos shut off too.  Finally giving him a Samsung smart watch 3 so I can track him even without his phone and if he falls, the watch will send out an alert.  I had problems getting him to wear the watch tho Sowell see how this one works out later.
Don’t you want one in the bathroom? I’d think one in there aimed across the floor only showing up to ankle height would be useful in case they fall in there, where people do tend to fall often.
Thanks! Which camera system do you use?
Thanks for this! Which camera system did you use?
Actually I got it wrong, my aunt will be with her after she comes home from work everyday. So the idea is to keep the camera on during the hours when she's not there to take care of her. But I understand the concern.
Doesn't he realize something is wrong when he leaves his room?  I thought about it too but had decided against it cause they always moved you to a swleparate wing with completely different helpers and people anyway (plus covid).  

Wondering if I made an error.
Thanks for the info. Do you know what kind of brand you use?
Thanks, good to know. I don't know what type. I do know my aunt will be with her every evening after she comes home from work, and my grandma won't be on her own 24/7.
What brand is it? Thanks for the info!
So far she’s been fine in the bathroom but we’ll need to add one in at some point.
Wyze cam v2. I think they’re coming out with a v3.
We got Yi cameras off of Amazon.  They were affordable and offered the features we needed.  Very basic stuff.
I got an AOBO hidden mini spy camera last time. The previous one isn’t available any more.
Its Littlelf Smart camera. Amazon has it.
