Hey! I two bits of good news. 

First - dementia isn't really a disease that afflicts 16 year olds. I'm not a doctor, and a doctor is the only person who can actually help you here, but I don't think I'm violating the rules of sensible internet chatting to say that you very likely do not have dementia.

Second - there are loads of things that *can* affect memory. I'm on mat leave right now, but until recently I was a high school teacher and I worked with lots of young folks struggling with attention and memory problems. I don't really want to name the conditions my students had because self-diagnosis is often more harmful than helpful. I would start by urging you to go and talk to your family doctor about what you're experiencing. Be very candid with your doctor, and if it helps you to stay honest about your concerns, keep a diary of your forgetfulness for a week or so before you go in. If you don't want to get your parents involved, at 16 you should be able to book an appointment and see your doctor on your own. Doctor-patient confidentiality means that your doctor can't tell your parents why you visited (except for a very specific list of reasons). In every student that I worked with as a teacher, their doctor was able to offer medicine, counselling, and/or therapy that really helped. If your memory problems extend to school, and if you do have a condition that can be diagnosed, your school should also be in a position to help you develop strategies for learning and memory that work with your strengths.

After all this... If you see your doctor and your doctor kind of shrugs and can't offer you medical advice... And if you're reasonably confident that your doctor made a real effort to get you a diagnosis (meaning they took your concerns seriously and did some testing)... There are still things you can do to help your memory. It's going to sound super cliche, but your body is doing all kinds of crazy things in adolescence. It's not uncommon to have wild (and distracting, to say the least) emotional swings (and I don't just mean happy to sad... serious lows between sadness, anger, apathy... all possible). Again, I really don't mean this in a cliche way, but just the fact that you're having feelings can be distracting enough that you'll lose track of stuff. Your body is really just figuring out the literal brain chemistry of complicated feelings. Adolescence can also come with major sleep disruptions, both internally (like your circadian rhythm is shifting or has shifted) and because of external pressure (like work or school). These alone are enough to mess with your memory in major ways. So, if you don't get a diagnosis from a doctor, I'd urge you to take stock of your basic self care. Are you getting exercise? (I used to teach gym and in my part of the world the aim for a 16 year old is an average of 1 hour of exercise, even just walking, per day.) Are you getting enough sleep? (Again, recommendations may be different where you are, but where I am a 16 year old should aim for 9 hours a night.) Are you eating well? (We can go down a rabbit hole of nutrition, but if you aren't sure how to answer that question... If most of your food comes already prepared, from a box or tin or bag, you may not be getting the nutrients you need.) I know it can be super daunting to tackle these basic self care things if you are feeling at all out of whack... But even small improvements in these can help you with your ability to focus and remember. 

Good luck! I'm cheering for you!

(Sorry about spelling and all that. My kiddo is waking up and I don't have time to proofread!)
You do not have dementia. 

Lots of things cause this: ADHD, anxiety, concussion, to name a few. Please see a doctor so that you can get the help you need and not have to worry.
ADHD is way more likely.
>If you don't want to get your parents involved, at 16 you should be able to book an appointment and see your doctor on your own.

In the US I don't think teens can do their own appointments unless it's for sex-related appointments (stds, pregnancy testing, birth control, etc) or they are emancipated. My clinic is required to call and obtain consent for minor patients unless they meet one of those exclusions. We can see, evaluate, and do limited treatment without consent but for this kind of neurologic/psychiatric issue our docs would not be able to help without parental consent. 

I know that's kind of a tangent to the thread but I wanted to put it out there :)
I do only 5-10 minutes of exercise and most of it is just cleaning and jogs and I can kinda control my mood swings, sometimes they slip here and there. My eating has been focused on eggs, vegetables, and some few meats and fish because of the pandemic, requiring my parents to spend only on inexpensive food, and I'm a huge learner student although I did skip school for this year because if the virus. I study fine arts all day, it's my dream job to be an illustrator, often goes through math, biology books, and philosophy books. I'm not really forced to study these, I'm interested in them, I do them in my spare time, also learning a third language which is Russian, I've learned English, Japanese, and Filipino (my native language). I'm Asian but my parents are not strict at all. I'm just interested in learning. My parents don't have their personal doctors, we're a middle class family, not too rich and not too poor.

It seems like I got ADHD with all these things I'm trying to accomplish all in one time.

But thanks anyway, maybe in my future I can go to my future doctor and get my future self diagnosed :-).
Oh for real? I'm in Canada and was basically in charge of my own health as soon as I was 12. Like, my doctor asked my mum to leave the office. 🤷
Wish that it was the same here! I think the infantilization of young adults is very damaging.
I remember it being a very empowering moment - it was my annual physical, and my doc was just like: "you're old enough now to be responsible for your own health, and your mum is still an excellent resource for you - go to her with questions, concerns, or to seek comfort or advice, but from now on you can also come directly to me too."
