I'm going to share a second hand anecdote... I've an older friend whose mother in law has Alzheimer's. She lived in her own apartment in the UK. She had helpers who would come by, always in pairs. One helper would just visit and be the MIL's friend. The second visitor literally came in the back door, went straight to the fridge, and cleaned it out. What I learned from this is that if your loved one doesn't see the care happening, they likely will never know it happened. I know it can feel dishonest, but ... Sometimes obscuring the truth can actually be a huge help to a person with dementia if it saves them upset *and* literally preserves their health. So... Can you get at your grandparents' fridge in secret?
When I take my parents to the doctor, my sister-in-law goes in and cleans up what I wasn’t allowed too, etc. 

Rarely is it noticed that way, but to throw anything away in front of my mom (with Alz) is like the freaking world ended for the rest of the day, and sometimes it causes suspicions and made up stories for a few days.
What type of goods are you finding that are expired? Most canned goods are fine well past the date on the can as long as the can is in good condition. Dry goods like rice, beans, and pasta are also good past the date on the packaging. 
 
Even perishable food can be good past the expiry date as long as they were frozen before and then used promptly when thawed.

Keep an eye on the fridge because that is where most of the spoiled food that could be eaten will be. If it's safe to be stored in a cupboard it is probably still good. A clean out of the cupboards will probably cause more distress for your grandpa than benefits.

[USDA shelf stable food.](https://www.usda.gov/media/blog/2013/06/27/you-toss-food-wait-check-it-out#:~:text=Most%20shelf%2Dstable%20foods%20are,or%20develop%20an%20off%20flavor.)
I used to just ignore my parents being upset.  I remember my dad got mad when I threw away a pack of opened green fuzzy hot dogs.  He said he would wash them off and they'd be fine!  Although my father does have an "iron stomach" and can pretty much tolerate anything!
Can only share my experience.

My mum had cupboards full of cans and stuff.  I came in and took over cooking so I knew none of it was being used.  Then we had a carer start who has been a godsend.  

She just went through the kitchen with no mercy, binning entire cabinets, much of the food she threw out was old enough to vote.  Ulitmately mum didn't care, she wasn't going to use it and now we've actually got some space to store new stuff
My father has his own fridge in our house because he kept leaving my freezer door and spoiling hundreds of dollars of meat at a time. 

Now, I wait for him to leave the house with a friend and purge the entire thing of anything that’s expired OR going to expire in a week. He won’t eat it in a week. I have to wait until he leaves though because otherwise he throws a complete shit fit. If he doesn’t see me go through it, he doesn’t realize I’ve done it...

There was about a month that he didn’t leave the house with his friend like usually and I couldn’t clean it out. Finally his friend calls me and says “your dads been complaining he has diarrhea. Are you concerned?” 1) did not know and 2) No, not really. It’s probably all the expired food in his fridge. He can’t taste or smell if somethings spoiled and he’ll eat it no matter what. 🤷‍♀️ For now, it’s all I can do!
Once a month I travel up to my moms in the next state over to spend a weekend with her and support my sister who is her live in care giver. One of those weekends, I brought a bunch of food to feed us over the weekend (I want to help them, not add more cost for them as I am already paying half their bills). There was no room in the fridge. My sister had been trying to convince mom to let her clean out the fridge but because of her paranoia with dementia, she freaked out that my sister was "stealing her food". So while mom was napping, we started to clear things out. Mom woke up, walked out and said, "What are you two up to?" and I pointed out we were cleaning out the old food in the fridge. She insisted that there was no old food so I showed her a container of something from the fridge that had expired in 2003! She looked at me and said "It's an antique". We all died laughing. If she hadn't caught us she never would have known that we had done it. Thankfully when she did catch us doing it, she got a laugh about it.
That would be a very good idea. You might frame it as you found some expired food in your own cupboard so you thought you'd help out and check theirs. Else do it on the sneak and maybe buy them some fresh stuff.  best of luck.
This is what needs to happen. This is the kindest way to help. Ideally, if you can covertly replace the expired items with identical fresh items, more the better.
You may also make a list of the foods that are expired that would actually get used. If there is some old soup, for instance, buy a new can of that soup and swap it out. Then try to get them to eat the new can. You don’t have to replace everything. Toss out the old that will never get used, and swap out the old that could be used once it is replaced. Chances are they won’t notice as long as the pantry isn’t suddenly empty.
We use variations on this with my dad: my sister will do an activity with dad whilst I help mum to sort out stuff, do a tip or charity run etc. We have also got him into certain routines to reduce the lost items panic keys and wallet.
[deleted]
My dad is constantly 'sorting out' the garage, thankfully with the help of his companion carer we have managed to clear out much of the garage to the point it is a usable storage space again.
