Falling and abrupt decline are very, very common. There are a few safety measures to help prevent falls, but even those are not infallible. 

Take care not to aim your frustration with the loss of your father out on his caretakers, they are trying. 

And last but not least, dying due to complications to a fall sounds bad, but riding Alzheimer's out to the end is much, much worse.
My dad is similar to yours in the sense the he is inlayer stages but still walks and converse, nonsense but he speaks a lot, etc. he hasn’t fall, but when he has gone through something that breaks his routine(eye surgery, covid lockdowns, changes in medication, etc) he has a set back.
Aside from anything that could be hurting him, I feel is his mood goes  down. Think how tired you feel when you are sick, now add that feeling to the general confusion of Alzheimer and you could easily get some someone down, even the strongest ones. I feel that’s when he needs more hugs, love and support.
UTI’s and other infections can cause a quick decline. I would have this checked.
Arizona? People typically abbreviate Alzheimer’s to Alz.
Thank you for your reply. The problem is his wife is running the show and I have very little control. I mentioned the UTI to her and she brushed it off. I did ask the nurse and she seemed to think a UTI would make him more aggressive, which he is not. I’m trying not to point fingers but something seems off and I’m just trying to understand. Thanks again!
Hmm, that doesn’t relate to my question but thanks anyway.
I know it’s so frustrating. My mother fell more and was very confused with a UTI.  She was never aggressive. I have heard that can be a symptom though. My mother has also had regressions that I just knew were UTI’s and they were just the disease. I know you are frustrated, especially having so little input. I hope your Dad find relief soon.
Your question was already answered when I got here. Idk what you want from me with that attitude. I’m just trying to spread a little humor.
Thank you so much for sharing and for your kind words.
I didn’t ask for your help with my choice of abbreviation. I’ll never understand why people comment if they have nothing kind or useful to say. Just keep scrolling smh.
Jesus Christ not the right reddit forum ....🤬
You seem fun. My comment was helpful because you abbreviated Alz incorrectly and it could cause confusion for you in the future. I was trying to be funny and kindly correct you so you could avoid any potential headaches. 

But if you want to act up and pretend I’m the problem when you’re coming at me with this attitude, that’s on you. Enjoy your day.
You must be new to Reddit. Welcome.
Check yourself. Comments like yours are truly not needed here. Not helpful, not funny, not kind. Not even when you wrap it up with 'enjoy your day'
You sound like a horrible person .....
Check YOURself. OP was quite rude for no reason. End of story.
Think what you like. You’re probably very much the same.
