My mom has this and she has outbursts. Certain things set her off. The biggest issue that she has is knowing the names of objects. She is unable to understand anything that she reads. She is great with numbers and does sudoku puzzles but she can't read the newspaper anymore. She knows the words but they make no sense to her. She doesn't have any tics that I know of. Hopefully yours is from trauma and not dementia.
the only knowledge I have of FTD is what I saw in my grandmother and the assessment of neurological professionals specializing in dementia. a quick googling tells me the signs and symptoms are:

&#x200B;

* Poor judgment.
* Loss of empathy.
* Socially inappropriate behavior.
* Lack of inhibition.
* Repetitive compulsive behavior.
* Inability to concentrate or plan.
* Frequent, abrupt mood changes.
* Speech difficulties.

I would bet you a venti latte that 99 out of 100 people you ask will say they have experienced more than one of these symptoms since March of this year, including me. Covid, your health issues, and FTD could all offer an explanation for your state. 

so the answer is yes you could, but if you're concerned you can have an assessment made by a pro, then have another assessment made by another pro. 

&#x200B;

I feel for you. Good luck.
My husband was diagnosed with mild cognitive impairment of the frontotemporal lobes. That means we are new to this and his isn’t bad enough (yet) to be called FTD. One thing that sticks out to me about what you said is that you are aware that you’ve done some socially inappropriate things. My husband doesn’t think the things he does are inappropriate or unjustified. He thinks he is just fine and that I’m wrong and judgmental to think he is doing anything not-normal. This makes me think you don’t quite fit the FTD diagnosis, but I’m new enough to this that you shouldn’t treat me like an expert.
Psychologist here: it's impossible to assess what is going on with you over the internet. Anyone answering your question with yes or no is just guessing. 

You are noticing symptoms, and had a major life event. You've already gone to the doctor, which is the best step you can take. They will be able to diagnose what is and isn't wrong. 

My advice would be to look for support now, instead of advice from the internet. You must be worried and that sucks. I hope you get answers soon.
I have no problem with reading comprehension, or numbers, or taking care of household requirements, etc. I don't think I have outbursts, per se, but I definitely get "stuck" on things sometimes. However, I also have OCD, which tends toward obsessive thought loops. How gradual/rapid was the onset for your mom? In my case it happened pretty quickly, but I've read that it's usually a slower process of decline.
I have read that people with FTD are often/usually unaware that their behavior and choices are inappropriate, offensive, socially unacceptable, etc., so that does give me a flicker of hope. I am exceedingly aware of how inappropriate or just plain odd my behavior can be, and have a fair amount  of control over it. I'm going to the neurologist tomorrow. I'll post more afterward.
I have concerns myself about mild cognitive impairment. Can you give examples of this socially inappropriate behavior?
I had a neurology appointment at the end of last week, and my neurologist doesn't think dementia is likely. He didn't do any specific tests for it, though, so I am still worried. What is strange is that when I am writing, I feel like my mind is still my own, as it used to be. But when I'm speaking, trying to have a conversation, much of what comes out is stilted and rather childish in terms of vocabulary, diction, even tone of voice. I am able to control the inappropriate behavior, but the urge still occurs from time to time. I also have periodic urges to make what I can only describe as "creepy" faces, which I can also usually control, but a few times I've  made said faces, accompanied by grunting animal-esque noises. This doesn't fit any description of dementia I've read! My neurologist says he has seen that with psychological disorders. None of this makes any sense.
Hers came on fairly quickly and then plateaued. She had surgery and after coming out of anesthesia it became worse immediately.  She had a brain scan done and it showed that the front of her brain was starting to die. I would see if you could have a CAT scan done by a doctor who specializes in dementia.
You say you have OCD, are you on any psychotropic medications? If so, how long have you been on them?
Good luck. Keep us posted as you learn more.
Not counting my username...this is Reddit after all :)
He cusses more than he used to. His potty mouth rivals mine now. His road rage has increased and no driver is allowed to make mistakes except him. He isn’t inappropriate sexually but that is common with FTD. He enters other people’s personal space. Even before COVID, I was reminding him to step towards me and not stand next to the stranger paying for their groceries in front of us in line, for example.

The most obvious thing with him is how he dresses in filthy stained clothing day after day. He says these are his work clothes so he doesn’t get nice clothes dirty. He doesn’t work on cars in his spare time or anything like that so there’s no reason why he can’t wear an unstained tshirt at least. I have to tell him to change clothes so we can go shopping. He shops alone in those clothes but I try not to go out in public with him looking like that. The other day it was 48 degrees and he went shopping with me wearing a tshirt and floppy shorts. Others were wearing coats since we are in the south and aren’t used to the cold. He said he was warm and defended his attire but when I left him in the car to go in one last store, I came out to see he had the temp set on 78, so he was cold. 

He also has a hard time connecting meaningfully with others. I feel like he has been taken over by a body snatcher from a horror movie. It looks like him (in dirty clothes) but emotionally he isn’t there. Our daughter was the center of his world. When she calls weekly, I have a conversation with her and all that’s going on with her life and he asks her about the weather and tells her how cute our cat is. Honestly, he shows more emotion for our cat (who is awesome) than he does for any of us. The day our daughter got married, I was running around getting last minute shopping done of things the planner needed and delivering heavy boxes even though I needed shoulder surgery at the time. He didn’t want to help so he sat in our hotel room and watched a golf tournament. When I rushed back needing a second shower I didn’t have time for before the wedding, he wanted to tell me all about the golf tournament and how my employer was the sponsor of the tournament (I knew). This assholish behavior was not typical for him previously. And he certainly wouldn’t have missed an opportunity to make her wedding day perfect if it weren’t for his brain issue.
Ask your neurologist for a broader consult. If you ask 'do I have dementia' you'll just get that answered. If you ask 'what is wrong, and why is this happening' you might get a much more useful answer. 

Some of your symptoms could occur alongside so many other 'diseases/disorders' it really is impossible to give a more pointed advice. Good luck!
Pindakazig: Have you ever seen anything like this in your practice? I do have OCD, which tends to affect or exacerbate other things, but this is just plain bizarre, and doesn't totally match anything I've read.
I've not seen this in practice, but my practice is rather limited. 

OCD is known for its intrusive thoughts and actions, maybe yours decided that variation was in order. It's very difficult to feel so unseen: you can tell something changed, but others can't see it. Don't give up, but do keep an open mind. If the causes aren't neurological doesn't mean the symptoms aren't there.
Thanks for your response! It's definitely disturbing, and I keep wondering why it isn't more obvious to others. But maybe that's a good sign, pointing away from true dementia....
