Based on my experience I’d start preparing now.  

My mom is in the relatively early stages and can still (mostly) take care of herself - feed, bathe, go to the bathroom.  She has some incontinence issues but she wears diapers which she deals with and disposes herself.

We were able to get her into an “independent living” facility which is an “all-in” cost for a small studio apartment, all meals, cable, etc.  Her social security- which is actually hers AND my father’s even though they divorced many years ago but my father never remarried and passed away many years ago and my mother divorced from her second husband.  

Anyway her SS barely covers this cost and the minimal bills she has (cell phone, supplemental Medicare, etc).  There’s absolutely no way her SS would cover a true assisted living facility and definitely not a true memory care facility which are very expensive - probably 4-8k/mo at the very minimum.

In any case all this to say the Medicaid will not cover assisted living and/or memory care until she has a medical deeming by a professional; ie. her dementia or physical health will have to be relatively quite bad to get that deeming that she needs assisted living, memory care, aides, nursing, etc.  In my experience my mom at one point had about 90 days of nursing home care available to her under her regular and supplemental Medicare though I don’t think her supplemental Medicare technically covered nursing care and rather that 90 days was covered under standard Medicare coverage.  

You’ll want to go through the application process both for Medicaid and potentially for housing assistance (section 8 and the like) assuming you don’t have long term care insurance available which it doesn’t sound like you do.  Note that it can and usually does take years to process applications for housing and have your mom work her way up waiting lists to get into kind of subsidized housing.  Finding these facilities tends to be very difficult and the waiting lists are long.  The Medicaid application process doesn’t usually take that long - 3-6 months, maybe but subsidized housing applications can take very long as I understand it.  And you can only get on a facility’s waiting list until AFTER you have subsidized housing approval.  My understanding is it’s not unusual for it to take years to wind your way through the process.  

So yea start now so your mom is as prepared as possible when/if her health starts deteriorating more significantly.  Medicaid is probably a good first step but you can probably start the subsidized housing applications concurrently.
I believe medicaid can assist with nursing home care (you may want to google this) but not assisted living facilities... But be aware medicaid does a 5-year look back for transactions of $2k+ which could disqualify her. If she has assets over a certain threshold, she could also be disqualified for medicaid coverage.

For example, in NY, your assets have to be under $15,750 to qualify and your assets had to remain under that threshold for the last five years, with no transfers to or from anyone over $2k. I would suggest speaking with an elder care attorney for more info for where she's located.
Medicaid doesn’t help with any assisted living facility payment as far as I know. It’s going to be All out of pocket.
Sounds good. She had no assets so hoping she can qualify.
Great advice will look into these options.
And what I mean by "coverage" is that typically skilled nursing places are $6500+ per month, but medicaid allows you to be charged less, so that your SSI, in my mom's case, pays for your nursing care services like rent. My mom gets to keep $50 each month for personal expenses, but that's it from SSI since it goes to her facility. Again, an attorney would know more, this is just my experience in NY.
Thank you for your info much appreciated
Great info much appreciated. Feel like I'm going into the unknown. We'll look into all of these
You may want to check with your local Medicaid office. It all depends on your finances. But nonetheless if they do pay, you don’t get your choice of the facility. They go to a state-run facility.. which to be honest isn’t very good. But that could depend from state to state.
Oh the joys of being poor. Ty
