Bladder infection is probably where I would look first. 

Its a very common occurrence in elderly and even more common in Alzheimer's and dementia, and you would usually see a rapid decline in mental and physical function as well.

I would see a doctor as soon as possible.
If her condition is declining rapidly in the sense of you think she may be close to death, then a higher temperature can be an indicator of that. When people pass sometimes their body temperature raises, and they can even get a fever.

I am very sorry to tell you this. I went through this myself recently. Of course this may not be the case, and she could be suffering from something like a UTI which is very common in these patients. She should have a doctor see her to ensure there is no infection.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Elderly people, especially dementia patients, often have no symptoms with a urinary infection other that some change in behavior or thinking. With a low grade fever it’s good to get her checked out. Most don’t complain of actual burning when they pee like a younger person would.
Yeah what mell-bell said, often they dont show symptoms. 
Severe pain, and refusal to move and rapid mental decline could be a sign that an UTI is well on its way to turning septic. Or the UTI has turned into a kidney infection. 

I would doubt her spine has much to do with recent rapid decline. I would just take her to the doctor or urgent care or whatever you feel is best. 

UTI is so common in dementia and Alzheimer's, it and strokes make up for most of the cause of deaths due to complications.
Many people opt not to treat UTI after so many years of fighting infections and the progression of the disease.
My grandmother personally did not have body temp raised when she passed, but it was something hospice told us to look out for as she neared her final days. 

With a UTI they may not feel pain. With this disease they can lose sensitivity to pain over time. Even in healthy individuals they don’t always realize they have a UTI, myself included. But it’s imperative to get checked as it can spread to their kidneys. If she wears a diaper she much more likely to develop them. In addition to a UTI, it could always ben caused by a blood clot. There are many things that can cause this raise in temperature which is why a doctor is best to evaluate her
[deleted]
[deleted]
A catheter would likely be put into place because shes not peeing. Would it hurt her? I dont think so. If shes not peeing that also makes me think UTI. The thing is, if it is an infection, I would not wait long to make the decision on sending her to the hospital. 

If she goes septic, the likelyhood of her beating the infection is very low. But you are right, sending her to the hospital may put her into isolation. Its an unfortunate balancing act. And i have had a few elderly patients die without their family around and it breaks my heart every time.

Or I could be completely wrong. Without blood tests, its hard to be sure. If you asked me to guess based on what you have told me, an infection would be the first thing I would look for.
I’m not sure of the situation but a lot of times with situations like these, their doctors are willing to make house calls. We couldn’t move my grandmother for the last year of her life, but I know anytime there was a concern with my grandma we would call the doc and tell him symptoms and he would assess based on that, if she needed antibiotics in his opinion he would call them in to the pharmacy for us to pick up, and have her take them until he was able to come out and see her at the house. Giving a call to her doc and telling him what’s going on is worth a shot, and see what he has to say and see about if he does house calls, especially for patients with this disease
