The short answer is yes, because only by analysing the braintissue/structure we can be sure. 

The much longer answer is: it depends. 
Dementia is a symptom that fits a lot of different underlying causes, and therefore it can be hard to determine what exactly caused it. The main types are Alzheimer's, vascular, fronto temporal and Parkinson's/Lewy Body. There's korsakov/Wernicke and MCI( mild cognitive impairment) and so many more. Since extensive testing and research are taxing for the patients it's  often decided that the symptoms are severe enough to call it dementia, without determining which one. 

There are however patterns to the decline that can give some insight. Parkinson's is noticeable due to tremors, loss of facial expressions, and stop/ start problems (gait). Lewy Body is similar, but has pronounced hallucinations that start within the first year of symptoms. Fronto-temporal has a lot to do with inhibitions: you'll see impulse actions, emotional outbursts and repetitive behaviour. Vascular dementia has good and bad days. Sufferers are often aware of their loss of skill and cognition. You'll see steps in their decline.
Alzheimer's is the majority of the patients, somewhere in the 80%(?) And has a gradual loss, with pronounced memory problems. Sufferers often have no insight in their disease. 

However, all of these symptoms are not limited to one or the other. Alzheimer's patients will also decline faster some days, or start showing repetitive movements. They'll lose their inhibitions, and can get emotional outbursts etc. Often we'll see a combination: the patient has typical Alzheimer's symptoms, but is taking bloodthinners too(or has diabetes etc) which could explain some vascular symptoms. Because we can't say for sure which one it is, we'll just conclude 'dementia'.

Your doctor should be able to adequately explain why he can't give it a label, but probably can't give you specific examples. That's because the patterns can't be allocated like that. 

As for heritability: we don't know for sure. You might have the gene for it, but won't develop it, or you don't have the gene for it and develop issues anyway. My advice would be to take life as it comes and not to count on the future too much, or worry about it.  So many random things can happen, knowing the probability of developing dementia probably won't do you any good. Plan for the worst, hope for the best. 

Feel free to ask follow-up questions, and best of luck.
The four hour test your physician discouraged is probably a neuropsychological evaluation. If so, let the neuropsychologist decide if it would be helpful and that the patient can participate. Neuropsych evals can be done with people who have more severe symptoms (it doesn’t have to be 4 hours long either). These kinds of evals are often recommended to help with the issue you’re taking about: actually measuring cognitive symptoms, differential diagnosis, and receiving specific recommendations for additional treatment or strategies to help the family work with the patient. Advocate and good luck!
My mom had Frontotemporal Dementia that was misdiagnosed for over 10ish years as depression/anxiety. She was officially diagnosed when she was 54. It was so hard for a doctor to assign a dementia diagnosis because, "she is too young." Her Dementia is still kinda "new" and not a lot is known/ few treatment options.

It's all incredibly frustrating.
They insisted my dad had Alzheimer’s but I’m sure it was dementia. Sadly I wasn’t able to get his car taken away in time and then he almost ended up in jail. 
Having a parent with dementia is so challenging. My dad died at 73. He essentially was diagnosed at 73 when he hit the person despite my trying and trying to get his license taken away.
Non-Alzheimer's types of dementia often aren't caught by simple screening tests in general practitioner's offices - they primarily test memory skills, not executive-level functioning, empathy/apathy, impulse control, etc.  My mother "passed" those screening tests a couple times before getting a diagnosis, and even then her diagnosis wasn't "dementia" but "Cortical Atrophy" based on a CT-scan of her brain done by a neurologist. 

Schedule an appointment for your dad with an geriatric neuropsychiatrist.

And, as grim as this sounds - plan ahead to arrange for an autopsy so you can get a conclusive diagnosis after your father dies, because unless it's something that can be identified by known genetic markers, a post-mortem brain examination is still the only way to really confirm what type of dementia this is.

I assumed my mother's Dr had made arrangements for post-mortem brain examinations, but he hadn't; by the time I checked it was too late.
It’s fucked up but yes I’m in the same boat with my mother......it’s fucking exhausting
It's extremely common, especially with early onset. Early onset tends to have a variety of symptoms that don't really fit the pattern. My father (died at 57), was diagnosed with Lewy Body, and had a wide range if symptoms that tend to fit with Lewy Body (alien hand, hallucinations, etc), but on necropsy, they found almost no lewy bodies, just alzheimers that was hitting the cerebral cortex harder than normal...
Yes that was our experience
So sorry, that's very frustrating!  Can you contact your nearest Dementia .org / Alzheimers .org ?   Idk about where you are, but here in Australia they are extremely helpful, making personal appointments with you for discussion of all concerns regarding these matters.  My mums GP also specialised in gerontology plus had known her for 30 years so we had a relatively smooth process with referrals etc, but still, Dementia Australia were wonderful, very helpful!  I think all the English-language-speaking dementia / alzheimers .orgs have tons of great info & resources & telephone help-lines etc.   best of luck!
You can likely rule out Vascular Dementia. On average people live for only about 5 years after their symptoms begin. It is usually caused by strokes, brain bleeds, and/or uncontrolled high blood pressure. 

This is what my mother has and the 5 year average has been pretty spot on for her. We are in the 5th year since her diagnosis and she’s in end stage dementia, on hospice and bedridden. Her struggle with this disease will end soon. 

https://www.alzheimers.org.uk/about-dementia/symptoms-and-diagnosis/how-dementia-progresses/progression-vascular-dementia
This is normal. Many types of dementia present with very similar symptoms and without spending a lot of time and doing a lot of background history regarding progression and specific behaviors, neurologists have a difficult time nailing down specific types of dementia. With my wife, I gave our neurologist as much detail as possible regarding progression and specific behaviors. I did my own research and concluded that my wife probably has Frontal/Temporal dementia. Her neurologist agreed that it was probably likely, but there wasn't a test that could actually confirm it.  Her brain scans were inconclusive as to the type of dementia. 

Dementia is a very broad, catch-all term that generally describes any type of degenerative cognitive function that isn't a result of some type of traumatic injury or other disease process. Alzheimer's is a broad term, as well and according to our Neurologist, Frontal Temporal Dementia (FTD) fits into the broader category of Alzheimer's, which fits into the broader category of dementia.

The best thing I can suggest is to research yourself and see if you can see if it fits into any of the sub-types of dementia then ask your doctor if it seems likely that's what you are dealing with. Then see if you can get a diagnosis for the purposes of disability. Even if he will give you a broad diagnosis, as long as it will work for disability, that may be all you need. (They are probably looking for an ICD-10 code that they can attach to the paperwork).  

Worst case, you may have to get a lawyer involved to help get things done. I wouldn't do this right away, but there are lawyers that specialize in Medicare Disability claims.
Wonderful summary.

I just want to tack on an anecdote regarding genetic testing to support your statement. A married couple in my support group paid thousands out of pocket for testing because the husband was diagnosed at age 42 with early onset Alzheimer's and they had four children. At the time there were three associated genetic markers (unsure about terminology here) and he was negative for all three. It really seemed to compound their grief, anger, and frustration in that moment, but in the long run maybe there was some comfort  there.
Can't upvote you enough. Excellent explanation. 

My MIL never had an official dx -- they suspected Korsakov/Wernicke but couldn't be sure, especially as like u/notgoodenoughforjob, MIL hadn't been drinking in years. Also she showed lots of symptoms of Lewy body (hallucinations early on) and Front-temporal (total loss of inhibitions and emotional outbursts). Unlike most of the dementia patients in her memory care unit, she never stopped talking until the day she died. But had a 6 second memory. When she passed we were given the option to autopsy -- family was also wondering if it was inheritable -- but ultimately declined. 

My father still doesn't have an official dx as well, his progression and symptoms have been very different. Best guess is vascular dementia, but he shows a lot of traits of Parkinson's. He just gets quieter and quieter and has lost his facial expressions, has some minor tremors but to me the gait changes have been particularly worrisome and from early on. He also has that spatial relation thing where navigating stairs or escalators is difficult. He's been well aware that he's losing his memory and it's been super frustrating. But then again, the Alzheimer's drugs have helped... so who knows? 

Ultimately I've personally concluded that dx is more art than science, and could be totally wrong, because there's so little we actually know.
Just to clear up some misinformation. Alzheimer’s is a type of dementia.
Sadly my dad made sure he had it in his power of attorney documents that we aren’t allowed to authorize an autopsy haha. The neurologist won’t refer him to a neuropsychiatrist
[deleted]
I totally understand that and after watching my grandmother die from Alzheimer’s that’s not what my dad had. 
He was always in the present. He didn’t actually forget anything. He was just really messed up and confused. Neurotic. Obsessive.
**I found links in your comment that were not hyperlinked:**

* [alzheimers.org](https://alzheimers.org)

*I did the honors for you.*

***

^[delete](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fu%2FLinkifyBot&subject=delete%20gbznt33&message=Click%20the%20send%20button%20to%20delete%20the%20false%20positive.) ^| ^[information](https://np.reddit.com/u/LinkifyBot/comments/gkkf7p) ^| ^<3
That doesn’t sound like dementia. Not going to diagnose someone I didn’t meet, but for it to be dementia there has to be problems consolidating short term memory to long term memory.
Exactly. But that’s all we got. And to be clear I don’t think he was doing great in the memory department overall, he just still knew who we were and he was still devastated at the state of his life. He was still driving six months before his death. He was here unlike dementia patients. 
So what do you think it could have been? I’m pretty sure it’s this genetic disorder I have that made me a massive space cadet and gave me lots of weird health problems before getting diagnosed.
The doctors diagnosed him with Alzheimer’s and said he died from supplement induced liver and kidney failure. 
This evil Chiropractor had my dad on so much stuff.
Hard to say and I don’t want to speculate. There could be many contributing factors. If he died from other causes it could be that the dementia had not progressed significantly for deficits to be largely noticeably.

Edit to add. If he didn’t have a neuropsych done, they would be strictly diagnosing based on brain imaging. Alzheimer’s has very clear markers
Or they were just lazy and gave an easy diagnosis.
But you said they didn’t give a diagnosis.
By saying that’s all we got I meant all we got was an Alzheimer’s dx.
It could be that they were lazy but it could also be that they didn’t want to send him for the neuropsych exam that is needed to confirm diagnosis. If you’re in the states it’s very pricy, especially if his deficits were not impacting his ADLs significantly this would make sense.
