I think, to some extent, this is inevitable, unfortunately.

If I were in your shoes, I would absolutely talk to her doctor about sleeping aides (as another poster suggests). If her doctor seems reluctant, ask if you can get a referral to a gerontologist. In my (admittedly limited) experience, general practitioners can be reluctant to medicate. Heck, I was reluctant to medicate for a long time! But a doctor who specializes in the care of older folks will be much better equipped to inform you about your options and much more willing to offer medicine to help.

I would also consider what these behaviours might mean. In folks with dementia, there is absolutely a tendency to wander, to get into things, to start and not finish things... Sometimes, however, this busy-ness is a reflection of something going on in their minds that they just can't articulate. My mum, for a time, was up and into things at night. Troublingly, she would collect the sharp knives and bring them to her room. With a bit of trial and error, and some serious listening, we kind of landed on her feeling that she was supposed to get work done. She had always been a hard worker, and in her confabulation she came to believe that her own home was a kind of hotel and that she just worked there. (So sad, I know!) We were able to put a dent in night wanderings by trying to satisfy that need to be useful during the day. She wasn't always thrilled about "having" to work, but she was visibly pleased about finishing jobs. (Folding laundry, pulling herbs off of stems in the kitchen, watering plants, opening or closing windows... These kinds of tasks.) 

After a time, we did start putting in fail safes. (Fail saves? Not sure about spelling for the plural.) Some things that we did which you might like to look into... You can flip the breaker for the kitchen at night so none of the appliances work. If the lights don't go on, she may be reluctant to go into the room. We moved the knife block to the top of the fridge; she's a bit shorter and couldn't see or be tempted by them. We added chain locks to the top of doors going outside so she could crack the door open but not get out in the middle of the night. We added barricades at the tops of staircases to dissuade her from going downstairs. These weren't complicated barricades - just a piece of cardboard - but the visual barrier can be enough to stop a person with dementia from proceeding.

Good luck!
Can you ask her doctor for sleeping pills (even just melatonin) to take before bed, obviously if they're indicated in her situation?
A couple of things that have been helpful for us: baby locks on cabinets & the fridge, an electronic front door lock (also good because we can unlock it remotely for her aid if we aren’t home), putting all small appliances away in a cabinet.
watch Terpa Snow on YouTube. She has a LOT of helpful info.
Thank you, those are all helpful. She is on five or six different medications already, so I will see if melatonin is a possibility. 
I'll start giving her some small things to help around the house, because she is definitely frustrated at not being the one responsible for the housework anymore. I hadn't thought of that connection.
