You know what - I wouldn't correct him either. First because folks with dementia don't deal well with it when confronted with objective reality. There's no need to add to his grief/anger/frustration because ultimately his feelings will become yours. I am not trans, so I can't speak to the emotional impact of being seen by a parent in the way that you are experiencing, but my mum at this point only knows that she and I are related. Sometimes I'm her sister. Sometimes I'm her mom. I'm only ever very rarely her daughter. I just roll with it. Second reason I wouldn't bother correcting him... You are totally worthy of a positive experience with your dad. I'm so sorry that he didn't accept you when you transitioned, but I would resist the inclination to feel like the way he is treating you now is false. Like there's no way to undo his former close-mindednes and its consequences, but folks with dementia really only experience life in the moment. If you can find happiness in your in-the-moment with your dad, then enjoy the heck out of it. Again, I don't have your experience and I can only imagine how taxing it has been to have a dad who didn't support you, and I don't expect that your time with him now will undo that hurt, but he's going to see you as who he sees you so if you can roll with it you may as well.
I think it would be pointless to correct your Dad as it is unlikely he could grasp your meaning. This is not being dishonest, it is your new reality where everything is turned upside down and the old rules no longer apply. My mum also gets muddled about who is who. Just roll with it and enjoy the time you have left together. You can’t change the horrible situation you are in so make it as smooth as possible for both of you.
Thank you for all your replies and advice. It's such a conflicted mixture of emotions for me right now but it helps a lot to hear everyone say that it isn't a cruel or bad thing to do to just go with things.
My dad thinks that I'm his brother and I just go with it. It really sucks knowing that I will never get to say goodbye to him. 

Sorry to hear about the fallout with your dad. I would suggest you go with what makes  him comfortable.
Go with it, if it keeps him calmer and easier to work with that's what matters. Mine decided about eight months ago I'm someone he worked for back in his late 20s and I've never called him on it, all you'd get is a moment of shocked horror then nothing as he disappears back in his head so there's no point. Plus doing so will just make you feel like a dickhead, and this disease is oh so good at that even in the best of times.

If letting him mistake the identity gives you a better relationship, keep going with it. Ours was kind of fractured at the end after he had a friend of his tell me my vertigo I've had for years that's kept me from working or much leaving the house was fake rather than saying it to me himself. I avoided him after that and ended up losing what little time I could have spent with him before he changed.
Oh yeah. Just go with it. I'm glad my dad still recognizes me but I know that's coming. When my grandmother was in hospice, I was   in my early 20s & spent quite a few of her last nights with her. We had someone with her round the clock the last few weeks & I was waiting tables at the time and I'd go to be with her after work til morning. Anyways for whatever reason she decided that I was "a friend of mmmolives" and was always telling me how NICE I was to do so much for her and what a good friend I was to help my friends grandmother so much! She just did not recognize me. I went with it, no point in arguing. It really hurt my feelings at the time though because she talked a lot about me TO me, and how I was such a disappointment to her and how every other one of her grandkids was so successful except for me and how shameful that I had dropped out of college. (Of course she never mentioned how none of my successful cousins had time to be with her in hospice) I got over it after a while, but i remember being very very hurt at the time. 


So yeah, I sort of relate & I even have a few fond memories of hanging out talking with loopy dementia grandmother when she doesn't realize she is talking to her disappointing granddaughter. She was a real uptight hardass snob all her life but she liked "my friend". I'd say just go with it & enjoy your dad as much as you can. Best wishes.
You're doing great and you have no need to be ashamed. 

Your dad wouldn't understand you correcting him, and not only because of the transition. People with dementia don't understand if you try to correct them when they are wrong, they would just get upset. The best way to deal with their incorrect beliefs is just to go with it. Reminding him that his other son died would also be hearbreaking. This often happens when they ask for their deceased spouses, I know that the best thing to do is just say "he/she is not here now but will be soon" instead of trying to correct the mistake. Also, I don't know if he would undersand such a complex concept as transitioning, depending on the stage he's at.

All this said, I can't really understand your emotions in this situation, but I always had a strained relationship with my dad, who currently lives in a nursing home. I don't know if he recognizes me (probably not), but he said some kind things to me that he never said before. He also looks at me with such affection... it leaves me with a bittersweet feeling of empathy and loss.

If the way you can talk to each other now feels good, enjoy your time with him.
It is best not to correct him. You are making the right decision.
You deserved to be accepted by your father when you were younger. Despite his treatment of you, you still decided to be around him now. That is an incredible show of kindness to someone who may not deserve it. I think you can have this one thing, personally.

One thing being on this sub has taught me is that white lies are sometimes necessary to get through, for both you and the person with dementia.
My mom frequently confuses me with her sister. She has love for both of us. Your dad knows the love he has for you, even if he couldn't cope with everything in your life. Keep loving him, and accept the love he gives you.
My mother has done this a couple of times, I never correct her, but sometimes she catches herself doing it and I can see the confusion in her face.
I agree with the others  (For the record, old person here :)   He is happy thinking it is your dead brother.  Let him.  Enjoy the time you have with him, even though he doesn't know it is you.    He wouldn't understand what you are talking about if you told him.    .
Just enjoy your relationship with your dad the way it is now. It sounds very difficult, so I can only imagine how conflicting it must be for you. But if you enjoy your dad's company, and he enjoys your company, that's all that matters. Not to be disrespectful, but he probably wouldn't understand the truth.
My 84 year old mom has dementia. Everything I have been reading (and trying to practice) says to meet them where they are at as correcting them can just cause more confusion, frustration and anxiety. Especially if they are talking about things that would not cause them harm either to themselves or to their relationships with others.
So, you are doing nothing wrong by letting him think he is speaking with your brother. 
My mom isn’t quite at this stage yet, but I can see it on the horizon as she sometimes calls me by her sisters name. So in my future I can see having conversations with my mom and her thinking I am her little sister. 
This disease can suck a lot of joy out of your life, so please do try to find joy in the small things which can even be just knowing you made your dad happy by having a conversation with who he thinks is your brother.
Hugs!
i almost feel selfish correcting my mom when she thinks im my older sister (whos in a different country for work), so i don't 

it would be for me and not her, you are doing the right thing
It is a kindness to go along with it. You’re giving him a sense of knowing and familiarity. It’s a comfort for him. If you find comfort in it also, that is ok.
\* hugs \*
