you do not have to be a certified professional to be a caregiver for this disease. i am an art school grad with a sculpture degree and right out of college started caring for a man with alzheimers full time. the other two caregivers were both registered nurses. They were both kind and good to him, but I believe I was objectively a better caretaker than them. He had bad falls twice with one of them, improper bandaging from the other, and never had any issues while with me. no piece of paper is going to guarantee better service with caregivers. 

however, this was pre-covid and I now do care work for a mentally sound man with a spinal injury. none of his other PCA’s wear masks in his house, where both him and his wife are wheelchair bound and at risk. i find that incredibly unprofessional and wear a mask constantly while there and frequently change rubber gloves. 

your solution: politely ask each caretaker individually to wear a mask any time they are in the house with your father. provide a box of disposable blue masks if you want to be extra cautious. stock the house with boxes of rubber gloves and ask them to wear clean gloves while prepping food or doing anything physical for him (bathing, dressing, anything with contact). If you have any reason to believe they wont follow that instruction, discuss with your mom about installing a camera or two in the house (good to have anyway for a ton of reasons with alzheimers patients) and inform them of the cameras. dont say its to watch them, just let them know its there so you can keep an eye on your dad and make sure he doesnt wander or whatever. 

if your mom lives in the same house as him you cannot and should not expect her to wear a mask around him. its her house too and theyre already in close enough contact that it wouldnt matter. but make sure shes taking necessary precautions when she LEAVES the house. 

if you are in an area thats a hot spot, i dont think it would be unreasonable to request your caregivers get a test once every two weeks or so if it can be done for free. i might just be spoiled having easy access to free testing where i live though, so thats very circumstantial.
Thanks for responding. Maybe I wasn’t clear in my post that this is my stepmom who is running the show with his care, not my mom. She is very controlling and defensive, so I know it wouldn’t go over well if I discussed this with her. He has fallen several times in the past couple of weeks, also, so the care he’s been receiving is questionable. I don’t have control over this but I thought I’d reach out to see if anyone else is in a similar situation.
as his daughter you can definitely pull aside his caregivers when your stepmom isnt in the room and tell them they need to start wearing masks in the house. as an employee, i felt obligated to do anything any close family member of my patient asked of me. it may be the case that your mom asks them why they started wearing masks and tells them they dont have to, undermining your wishes and causing strife. this really seems like more of an issue between you and your step mom, not the caregivers and your dad. they’ll just do what theyre told by whoever is paying them, so thats where you need to go if you want changes to be made. i’m sure if they were RNs/CNAs caring for your dad they also would not wear masks if your step mom told them not to
