I would ask for a hospice referral.  The hospice nurses are wonderful and will help guide you through the end-of-life process.  This doesn't condemn your dad, people can receive hospice for months and even be discharged if they so improve that death isn't inevitable anymore.  People who are in hospice receive an additional level of care that often benefits them.
Based on my experience in nursing homes as a health worker, unfortunately it is hard to say. It might be indicative of a sudden decline, but many of the patients I worked with had been at this stage for months and even years. I hope you are doing OK.
I’m not sure if anyone could give you an answer it really is a question for his doctor.
Have you spoken with the nurses that care for him?
Thanks for responding. It’s interesting. I spoke to his nurse and she basically said the same thing. They don’t want to put him on hospice because sometimes folks just do this and remain in that state for awhile...
The doctor has told the nurses to just monitor him. No one has told me anything about whether he is in the final phase of life or anything...when my aunt went through this there was no call from staff specifying whether she was close to death or anything. Maybe they don’t know.
I only worked part time, but I worked a few weekends in a row caring for a lady who I was sure was dying. She had suddenly gotten sick (not covid) and was bedridden for weeks. I went back the next weekened and she was back to normal, very frail but back to status quo. So it's very hard to say unfortunately. Most important thing is that he's as comfortable as possible.
Ok it sounds like you still need to ask them all rather than just go by information they have already volunteered. Sorry if I misunderstood - have you actually asked them flat out - do you think my Dad is nearing the end? There are signs of final stages  (they sound too gruesome) 

Like the doctor has told the nurses to monitor him - monitor what exactly? What does he want them looking out for 
? 

But just try to push the doctor and nurses for upfront opinion. Maybe find out when the doctor is next due to see him again and go to visit him while the doctor is there.
My guess is they don't know. They've probably seen patients at the same stage who've gone both ways.
Yeah my great aunt did this and my mom told me they never told her death was near because it was hard to tell. Then one day she passed. It’s in gods hands
So I can’t go visit him due to covid but will call and see if I can get more info from the doctor. Everything I’ve read says these are signs that the end is near but I honestly don’t know...
Stopping eating, or unable to keep food down, has always been my red flag, but I'm not an expert.
Sorry for what you're going through. It's tough these days.
