That does seem like a big deal. My grandfather used to wake up in the middle of the night to go for a walk. The only way we found to stop him was locking the door and hiding the key. My grandma would tell him his aid left with the keys or something like that. If he's too lucid for that, a more expensive idea would be to get him a watch or wristband with GPS, so you can track him if he ever gets lost. Best of luck.
Ways to redirect the wanting to go home: ask about were he wants to go- get him to talk about the house and area, ask about the actual train journey, and who will be in the house when he gets there. The wanting to go home is more about the emotional feeling of being at home, so talking about the place he wants to go to and the people he wants to see can provide some of that. Things to remember during this conversation: as your dad loses his current and near past memories his age, to him, also decreases so the house he remembers might be his parents  and to him they will still be alive - dont correct him on this. As you talk about these memories with him you will find ways to gently turn the conversation towards more current times. It doesn't always work but with practice you should be able to satisfy his wandering some of the time.
My great grandfather also wanted to catch a train and my grandma, his daughter, has wandered the neighborhood because I think she's looking for her parents. I dont think my great grandfather knew where he was going, but he rode trains all his life so I'm sure if he had succeeded in finding a station, he would know what to do. He also broke into a couple of cars because he didn't have one and he wanted to find his wife, who passed a year before he did. Back then, his nursing home had to strap him in a chair and he had skin burns on his ankles and wrists.... My grandma lives in a neighborhood that her parents and community basically built so she has only wandered up and down the street, but she doesn't move well and we're terrified of her falling. 

As my grandma has gotten worse, my family and I are struggling a bit more to have my grandma sit still, but short and direct answers and commands have done well for us. We tell her she needs to wait because it's not time to go or that someone (if she's looking or wanting to go with someone) isn't here yet. We tell her she has to take her pills or she has to eat and other yes/no/do as I say commands. It doesn't work all of the time but she seems able to listen more and be present when she hears something straight to the point instead of a lengthy explanation or story.

Edit to add that we have a neighbor who often works outside and has cameras who has helped us find her a few times. It might be helpful to have a neighbor somewhat aware or involved with this situation in case they can help or provide answers. Other technologies in and outside the house (cameras, locked doors, doors with alarms to hear if someone opens it, the ring system on the front door, etc) may help.
You can get him a monitoring device put on his ankle, it might be worth it in this case.  It would also be wise to get him a medical alert bracelet so if found wandering, police could contact you guys.

Other redirections besides mentioning the pandemic would be "we're going to catch the train after your snack."  He might forget all about it by then.  Or, ask where he wants to go to on the train.  When he tells you, make up a story about needing him to drop something off when he gets there, and can you put Mom back on the phone?  etc.
Sounds like it's a bit late now but one that also works is to put a latch up high where they aren't expecting it to be.  


My ex's dad had PCA and couldn't get out the front door because there was a lock installed after they bought the place he just couldn't recognize as being there. He would go for the door knob but never the obvious key in the lock. But PCA is a lot different, and rarer, than most forms of Alzheimer's.
