This is probably very dependent on policies and the legal landscape of your state as well. I know photography in many facilities is strictly forbidden but I also know places that have endeavored to make video calls and other types of electronic communication more available to deal with exactly what you are talking about. The best bet with the facility is always to have a strong line of communication and to know the people who are dealing with your mother day to day. Professionals will understand your concerns  and they will do what they can to put your mind at ease but it always helps to have some kind of a working relationship with them beforehand so that it is easier to stay on the same page with them during tougher times.
I would definitely push for what you want to know. They are providing a service and should be providing assurances that she is safe and well. See if they have video conferencing. If not, can she use a phone? I video chat with my mom on her cell and I'm grateful we can still do that during this horrible time. Are you paying the facility out of pocket?
Thank you for your reply. I absolutely agree with what you’ve said I do have an aide I’m friendly with I was planning on asking her to check but I’d hate to compromise her I’m hoping it’d be enough to have her do a visual exam and lmk. They did mention that taking pictures was against state policy so I probably won’t get anywhere with that. I just figured we were living in different times so... but maybe I’ll start small and see where it takes me. Once again thank you for writing and making me feel like I’m not a lunatic. 😀
Thank you for writing. I’ve tried FaceTime it doesn’t work with mom, she gets too confused she can’t really use a regular phone either we have Medicaid for her. I talked to a friendly aide last night and she said she’d help me so I’m optimistic
Sure thing! Like I said especially with in-home care (more my expertise) I know companies and workers have been doing a lot to try to do video and connect families even starting before this virus hit. 

You can also pressure the administration in a way that a worker there cannot- if the worker isn’t allowed to do it by policy you are the one paying the bills so you have the right to take it up with the administration to push them to get creative to work it out.
Yeah an aid can do the FaceTime w her phone even. I'm surprised they don't have a rec dept who can set up video chats w ipads. I'm glad she wants to help.
I will definitely be having a talk with them thanks again
They do set up face time it’s just hard for my mother to understand what’s happening the aide sent me a video last night mom seems to be doing well so I’m happy about that.
