Wow it sounds like she’s doing very well for her age and diagnosis. Has she shown signs of personal care neglect? Like refusing to bathe or wear clean clothes or clean their home? With my dad that was one of the biggest red flags. Then the personality changes started. Went from being pretty happy go lucky to angry outbursts over minor things which then turned into racist rants. Then his health began to fail in other areas and he couldn’t manage on his own. This took about 5 years to progress to now which he lives in a nursing home and no longer can take care of himself. Your grandma sounds like she’s a ways off from that...
[deleted]
What happens next? 

You discover she's taking her pills two or three times over 15 minutes because her memory resets and she forgot she already took them. 

She leaves the bathroom sink running, and the water seeps into the room downstairs, creating a flooded mess. 

Her toileting deteriorates because she forgets what she was doing mid-wipe. You find soiled sofa, chair, bed, underwear, clothing everywhere. 

She's still taking long walks every day with her dog. You are out running errands and neighbors and shopkeepers tell you they've seen her, and have had to bring her back home because she was wandering around lost. Another tells you that she's been shoplifting but they haven't arrested her because they realize she has dementia and is pretty far gone.

One night she calls you upset that her dog has ran away. You discover her dog frozen in the snow bank just outside the house: she let him out then forgot he was out there. 

Your family who live far away and rarely see her come to visit, and by staying at her home 24/7 rather than for short visits 2 times a week, see what you're unable to see: she's really gotten bad, and it's time to put her in memory care.

When you finally get her settled in memory care, she confesses to you that she's been terrified living alone all this time.
There are pill reminders that are electronic.  They have a display and both sides have clear pill sections with little red LEDs behind each case.  You can set two times a day and the case will start beeping and blink the read light behind the one they're supposed to take.
Thank you for sharing your story. If possible, it might be good to tell us what type of dementia she has. There can be pretty big differences between the various types and it will be easier for someone to tell you what to expect if they know.
   My Dad (94) had gotten to a low point earlier in the year. I had thought I couldn't take care of him anymore but did two things. One is I noticed he wasn't taking his meds properly. So I ran his meds and he wasn't allowe to touch them. The second was his neurologist changed his med to an extended release or ER version. Don't know if this will help. 

   If she isnt on any kind of cognition or brainfunction med you may ask the doctor if it would help. I think my Dad takes Donepezil for that. There are books of Braingames you could get for her to play with. I've read that videogames are good as well.

best of luck
Thank you so much for replying.

I do feel like she's doing quite well. Her personality is unchanged and if you don't know she suffers from dementia she sounds completely normal..until she starts repeating questions.

She has stopped cooking altogether (depends on us to bring her food but eats by herself) and doesn't clean the house but strangely keeps her bed super tidy and the kitchen table too.

She forgets her dentures often and sometimes forgets to put on clean underwear when she discards dirty ones but she hasn't shown terrible decline in the past 5 years.

I'm sorry to hear about your dad. I can't imagine watching my parents decline. I hope you're feeling okay. How is your dad doing?
Thank you for your advice. I'm sorry to hear about your father.

She doesn't have any money with her (learned that the hard way when she paid a ridiculous amount of money for 2 lousy pillows someone tricked her to buy). It's all in the bank and we come 2 or 3 times a week to bring her food so she doesn't need cash.

As long as pills are concerned, I personally put the pills in separate bottles. White are morning pills, brown are for evenings. I hide them in different places everytime and then tell her over the phone where to find them 🤦🏻‍♀️ if I don't do that she just moves them and forgets where she put them.

We're lucky she isn't paranoid and takes her pills every time. At least I hope she does.. Guess I'll have to check more carefully. And we're even more lucky that she never forgets important things such as to eat, drink and lock the doors.
I'm so sorry to hear all this. I want to give you and your loved one a big hug. It's terrifying losing someone you love while they're still there but no longer themselves.
Hey thanks for the idea. We tried this, but she simply couldn't figure out how they work. She couldn't remember that when she heard the beeping it's time for her meds.

I have to call her and specifically tell her where her bottle with morning pills is (I hide them because she moves them and forgets). It's working very well for now. Been doing it for nearly 2 years.
Thanks for your reply and interest. 

Well they're not sure. It seems to be vascular dementia as she has many small lesions on her brain CT, but they said they can't tell for sure as she has many symptoms that overlap in different types of dementia.
Yeah she sounds like what is just typical of an aging person who just doesn’t clean a whole lot but is still relatively tidy. Thanks for your concerns about my dad! He is not well. He barely eats and sleeps all day. It’s been hard to watch especially from afar with Covid...I can’t go visit him especially since I’m pregnant. He is reaching the end but I have some comfort in knowing he will be at peace soon. It’s been very hard on me over the last two years.
Many pharmacies are able to for a small up charge, make all pills be given as punch cards. The bubbles are large and able to be punched open easily. It’s a really good way to keep track on wether pills are being taken in the right amounts. They are labeled on the day of the week, and cannot be refilled. We had to do this with my mother as she was taking about 4 times the amount of prescribed pills if we didn’t.
That was years ago. She (my MIL) was in memory care for several healthy, safe, comfortable years more, and then passed suddenly from cancer.

She was younger than your grandma (her dementia was early onset) but like your grandma had short term memory problems. Her memory would re-set about every 6 seconds. You could leave the room and come back in 6 seconds later and she'd act like she hadn't seen you in ages.  

Like you, my husband and I would see her twice a week as we lived only a few miles away. We thought she was doing fine -- but we weren't seeing her 24/7. And she could hold it together long enough for our visits, which were typically early in the day. Go around to visit at sundown and it was a different story. The doctor told us later that it is not uncommon for family living close to miss just how bad it is getting, it is like the boiling frog thing. It took my BIL and SIL who lived far away and only saw her infrequently to visit for a week to be able to really see what was going on. 

We are now going through this with my dad, but in this case I am the sibling who lives far away. And with COVID I haven't been able to see him at all. He doesn't know who I am when I call. Like your grandma, for a long time he was able to do things like mow the lawn-- he had the muscle memory to do that. But now my mom won't let him do that either, it's not safe. If it wasn't for COVID, he'd be in memory care by now. 

Sending big hugs to you as well.
I'm sending you many hugs and congratulations on your pregnancy. I'll think of your dad and hope covid settles down at least a bit to give you some time with him before the time comes.
Another pharmacy service is “multi-dose packaging” that are little sealed clear bags connected like a roll of stamps. Each bag is labeled with the day, date & time, so all the morning pills are in 1 bag and you rip it off the roll to take it. Next is the afternoon meds, evening, etc. You tell the pharmacist what times to print. There isn’t an easy way to find which pharmacies do this, I just started calling until I found a local one. They even mail it to my mom. Next to the meds we put a large “dementia clock” that says day, time, morning/afternoon/evening... and date. It doesn’t stop her from forgetting a dose, but at least she doesn’t take extra doses. 
...Correction, She doesn’t take extra doses as long as she can read a clock and coordinate the printed date/time on the bag. Once she starts taking them willy-nilly, then someone will need to administer her meds in person.
