[deleted]
I am sorry that you and your family are going through this. Would your grandparents accept any kind of help, maybe someone just checking in to drop off a meal each day? There are home helpers that can just do light cleaning and cook a meal while at the house. Maybe try to broach the subject that way, getting them help around the house, not help for them. 

I don't think I can offer much other advice as it is challenging when a loved one is resistance. Hope you can find a solution that works for all of you.
[deleted]
This step may or may not work.  Try telling your grandmother that of course *she* is absolutely fine, but your grandfather needs extra help to keep his health up.  See if you can persuade her that it's not about her health, it's about his.
Financially can they afford someone to come in every day to "assist" her with the daily house chores, Home Care Attendants, I think. They will handle the cooking and medication nothing medical. In the US, it can get costly. See what the state of Florida offers. 

With my dad, he was a roamer so at any point he would just get up and walk out (On his way to work, going to store, out for a cig, throwing out the trash, etc). So 2 things that the doctors and my family did to try and stop him were. A sleeping pill at night so he will sleep through it and a door chime like the ones in stores so if he started to wander and opened the door at 4am that would trigger and get someone in the home to stop it. It actually scared him and caused him to stay indoors. We had neighbors spot him and call us multiple times.

A nearby uncle can help depending if they were close. Sometimes certain people can trigger memories that agitate the patient and it becomes harder to control.  I could use my sister's name "his oldest" to get my father to do anything. When she came over he would listen to anything she said, with me it was the opposite, he yanked out an IV from his arm and told me to get his shoes cause we were leaving the hospital now! Told me how they were overcharging as I tried to stop him from getting on to the elevator. Told him to hold on cause my sister went to the car to get his shoes and his wallet. Told me good cause he needed his driver's license and slowly walked back to his room. With my mother is was my youngest brother, the baby. Mentioning his name cause her to stop and look around for him. Photo books were good for this as it helped calm both of them down. That is one thing that you can do now is create these photo books at services like Snapfish when they have deals and just have them shipped to her. Time for to stop rambling. Good luck. Don't forget to look for any services that the state provides.
Alzheimers .org , dementia .org for all English language speaking countries have tons of great info & resources & tips & etc online; call the telephone help-line for your local area, for specific questions etc.  Generally, they are very wonderful!!.   best of luck!
Instead of posing it as care to my mom, we posed it as her having a housekeeper to help with meals (by that point, she hated cooking and would rather order a pizza or takeout Chinese than have to cook a meal) and housework. She loved doing her own laundry, but other stuff like washing dishes or vacuuming was not enjoyable to her. That helped.

The harder point was moving her out of her home. She started wandering and became convinced a neighbor was trying to kill her. We had to move her into a memory care community. She hated that, but they have been great at working with her. They let her clean and organize, which keeps her busy, and there's always someone awake at all hours, so if she's up at 2 a.m. as is usual, there's a nurse or staff member awake and happy to chat, show her pictures of her hometown online, etc.
Just a quick thought - do you think one option in the “in between” time could be to empower your uncle to provide some drop in, consistent care? If she’s not progressed into the middle stage and is still relatively early, your uncle could maybe learn communication tips and strategies and behavioral things to help the day to day. What specific care does she need? Help in the bathroom? If it’s more daily chores, your uncle could possibly help (taking into consideration covid precautions). It’s also helpful for the whole family to receive that education - it will help you understand why she’s acting a certain way and you can learn to look for the triggers of some behaviors she has. You can get this through the Alz Assoc for free online right now through your local chapter. Go to alz.org and click on find your chapter, or look at the information there - there’s a whole library in there.

Another thing is to do an inventory (best you can) of safety measures. What are the risks of falls (environmental factors like rugs, cords)? If you go to alzheimersnavigator.org you can generate a checklist for different safety (and other topics too) measures, including things like medication safety and wandering. This is a free service online, it happens quickly.
Thanks, we will definitely do that!
Thanks for the kind words and advice. We had toyed with the idea of having someone come by every now and then to do meals/cleaning, but my grandmother is also pretty paranoid and there's a high chance she would be resistant to someone else in the house. Might be worth a shot though.
'Change' is indeed a curse word in this situation (she's more than fine with all the other curse words though, lol). The 'good cop/bad cop' idea is definitely interesting and worth considering. Agree that this will probably boil down to a family intervention-style meeting soon. It's tough because she flares up very quickly when there's conflict; last time we tried it was "YOU'LL CARRY MY DEAD BODY OUT OF THIS HOUSE!!". The key might be to keep trying though.

Thanks for the advice.
I like this approach. My parents were in a similar situation, mother with alzheimer's, dad with physical disabilities. I eventually convinced/coerced them into moving to a place that was "independent living" but also had other levels of care on the same campus - assisted living and memory care. Independent living had shared meals in a dining hall available, but the apartments also had a small kitchen, with oven, fridge and microwave. And they had a door button they had to push each morning to verify they were alive and well - if they didn't press it, someone was there to check on them.

You could sell it to your grandmother as making sure if she had a medical issue that required a hospital stay, (covid, regular pneumonia, blood clot, anything), that's a way to make sure your grandfather is in a place where people are checking in on him regularly and he can get meals. Then it's not about calling her incompetent; it's about her being a good caretaker for her husband, making contingency plans for him. 

The immediate move gets them into a more supervised place, where meals are available and there's shuttles to town that can handle wheelchairs if they need it. And those places probably come with weekly housekeeping. In our case they also had a recommended mover that didn't just pack and ship - it was someone who specialized in helping seniors downsize from houses to specific floor plans, helping them make the decisions of what to keep, help pack and donate what couldn't be kept, what to just trash, etc.  (I can send their name if you get to that point and want to message me for a recommendation, they were great.) Anyway, once they're in that place, staff there will keep an eye on things and let them, or family if need be, know if/when they get to a point where assisted living becomes necessary.
Thanks for sharing your experience. We're checking out resources now to help us prepare. I like your idea of creating a photo book; we will definitely discuss that!
Thanks very much!
Thanks for sharing -- this is pretty similar to what we're seeing now. She never cooks anymore and always wants takeout and doesn't do much cleaning anymore, but still does the laundry. Another comment mentioned re-framing a bit to help her see that her independence is not being taken away, so we might try that.

Getting my grandma out of the house will definitely be a feat. She's not at the point of wandering or any major delusions, but who knows how long we have till she gets there.
My uncle has been bridging the gap as best he can but we worry that it's not enough. Things are OK enough while he's there, but the days he isn't there can be a bit of a gamble.

Appreciate the advice and resources -- will definitely discuss creating a safety checklist with the family.
Yes, I would be overjoyed if we could work out a living situation like this for them! My grandma could receive the care she needs, and there would be plenty going on for my very social grandpa to enjoy. My grandma is just extremely attached to her house and thinks she can take care of my grandpa on her own, but we will have to keep trying. 

Thanks for sharing your experience!
