Hope someone can help me.
If she has internet service, would it be feasible to leave a cheap laptop turned on in her home? You can set up a remote desktop to be able to control it remotely without her needing to do anything.
I don't really know that there are allot of options. With my dad, he absolutely cannot figure out any new tech stuff so we are stuck with at&t uverse that he's always had. I just set it up so he only flips through channels he actually watches. I know there's some stuff on Netflix and Hulu he'd enjoy but he can't figure it out and I don't live there so it's not really an option. Hopefully someone can come along with more advice.
Can you look at single button remote/ something like the Flipper? And just always have the TV on the same channel? You might need to leave a note or somehow make it very clear she just needs to press the one button to turn the tv on (maybe tape down the other buttons?)  and make it easy to reach (they have cables that can connect the remote to a chair or you could secure it to a tabletop next to where she sits, etc. Just make sure you set it to a channel she likes and have the volume where she wants it.
[deleted]
Thank you all. I already bought a tablet. Setting it up for some remote control and automation. Hope it will work good. Thank you all.
Thank you for this. Yes, I am also thinking of it. Maybe I'll just teach her how to turn the device on.
My wife two years after diagnosis can’t figure out how to turn on the TV or use her IPad. These are not new devices but things she has used for years. She is starting to have problems changing channels. 

As the disease progresses learning anything new is impossible and doing things she has always done are becoming more difficult.  Any expectations that you will introduce new devices successfully maybe overly optimistic.
Thank you. Appreciate your response. My granny even don't understand how to use remote control. But hopefully she will remember how to turn on the laptop/tablet.
The problem we have with the Flipper is you can’t select the TV input. So when my dad unplugs the TV, and plugs it back in, it goes back to the default “TV” input when it has to be HDMI for the cable box to work. Any solutions to this?
Could you leave the laptop in sleep mode so that when the top is opened it comes on?
