Hi! I’m a clinical social worker in a memory disorders clinic. I work for a behavioral neurologist who specializes in the diseases that cause dementia (Alzheimer’s, Lewy Body, FTD, etc.). This is a repetitive behavior which is quite common with several diseases. Unfortunately, there is no way to satisfy the “urge” to make it stop.  There are some medications (generally SSRIs) that are used to reduce repetitive behaviors in dementia patients, but that is not always as effective as we’d like. 

What we teach our families when faced with challenging (and annoying) behaviors is to follow the “Three R’s” right, reassure, redirect.   This is a very basic idea that can be applied to and endless spectrum of behavioral challenges with people who have dementia.  No matter what they say, they are right. Don’t argue. Reassure the underlying feeling (usually fear, wanting to be heard/listened to), and redirect aka CHANGE THE SUBJECT. 

I’ll apply this to your thirsty patient: 

Patient: give me something to drink 

Caregiver: ok, ma’am. We will work on getting you something to drink as soon as we finish (xyz). I know you must be pretty thirsty. Hey, have you had a chance to get some fresh air today? Let’s go outside for a moment. 

This will likely need to be repeated for a period of time that varies from patient to patient. More often than not, though, the fixation will stop- and probably move to something else. 

Hope this helps! I think it’s cool you’re reaching out for pointers to improve your care.  That’s a sign of a good caregiver.
Make sure it's not something medical first. And maybe try small glasses?
How much does she drink? like in ml? And is there a problem with that? Is there a medical issue, like diabetes or just repetitive behaviour? You could just take a few glasses of water and place them around in the area she moves most often, so she can take them herself. You could try and give her something to stimulate her mouth otherwise...like bubblegum or sweets (please watch for swallowing) or if nothing helps a wet towel. Some meds cause a dry mouth.
Get the doctor to check her meds.  Most meds for overactive bladder/incontinence, allergy meds and anti-dizziness and anti-nausea meds cause mouth dryness.  Someone with short term memory would not remember she just drank if her mouth still felt dry.  Doc can also check for medical conditions that would cause problems with saliva production.

If she can tolerate it, sucking on hard candies can relieve dry mouth.  Of course, go sugar free if diabetic and don't let her over do it.
Is there such a thing as dehydration in the elderly - meaning, when I’m dehydrated from say a run and I haven’t had enough to drink or eat I drink copious amounts of water but it never quenches my thirst

So I add a sports supplement to my water to replenish the minerals lost through sweat and my thirst is satisfied 

Perhaps this is silly but just a thought 🤷🏽‍♀️
FYI - Mania = Bipolar, not Dementia
Great, after the potential medical causes of excessive thirst are ruled out.
SSRIs cause dry mouth so I wouldn‘t recommend in this special situation...But great advice with the „three R“.
Thanks for the extensive reply, I think you understand the problem. I do try to change the subject and distract her with a lot off effort and little success. She can be fixated on food as well, but merely wants to chew it and spits it out a lot of the time.

I was not familiar with the 3 R's, I'll keep them in mind as they're applicable to my other patients as well. Thanks again
If she gets the chance (something to drink out of and acces to a tap) she drinks until she trows up. I don't think she is actually thirsty. She has the same obsession with food (although a little less) a lot of the times she just chews it then spits it out. 

Something to stimulate her mouth is not a bad idea, I'll have to come up with something safe with regards to choking hazard
I don't think she is dehydrated, she's got her blood checked to see if something was wrong with her electrolytes or something but everything was fine
Ok, assuming medical causes have been ruled out by the nature of the question posed.
Dry mouth is a possible side effect. As with all side effects, you have to weigh the pros and cons. There is always a trade off, so to speak, when treating symptoms with medications.  

In my experience, dry mouth is a welcomed trade off for incessant repetitive behaviors.  Her request for a drink has nothing to do with actual thirst.
I’m glad you found this helpful and I’m glad I understood your question clearly.  

You’re right, this will have to be repeated until...and then likely applied to the next fixation.  

Strength and solidarity to you.  Care taking is not for the faint of heart, especially caring for those with dementia related behaviors.  You’re the real MVP
When was she last assessed by a doctor? Heart and kidney problems can cause excessive thirst.
Excuse me but you don't know that.   She could have new medical problems that are causing excessive thirst.  We simply don't know. Another social worker that doesn't recognize their own lane grrrr.
I do know that. The behavior was adequately described in the OP. 

You don’t know what other people do or don’t know, despite what you think.  I am highly educated and trained in this specific area of practice.  As a matter of fact, I am paid to answer questions like these in real life, everyday- at one of the more prestigious neuroscience institutes on this side of the globe. 

Regardless, how is your contribution at all productive to the OP’s situation?
That's exactly the problem.  You present your answer with confidence and backed up with a pedigree of expertise which you should know is not ethical for a clinician to do online.  Skipping the opportunity to r/o medical causes can cause unnecessary suffering in a patient who cannot make their needs known.  Just because you are a hammer doesn't make everything a nail.

Now would you like to compare education and credentials?
I don’t need to compare education and credentials on a Reddit thread.  I get paid very well to do this for a living, and not by you or by Reddit.  I am completely and utterly unbothered by you, but I am entertained a little so thank you for that. 

The OP was articulate and the question clearly stated. This was not a medical question, it was a behavioral question.  My response addressed that question, with the assumption that medical causes had been considered (again, given the context of the question).  

Hopefully the OP found all of the comments shared useful and will consider all of them as she determines her next steps.  Best of luck!
Not the person you were talking to but You assumed medical causes have been ruled out. You don’t know, and didn’t ask. That’s a caregiver’s take, the OP. 

I like the three Rs, that’s helpful to people in general, but in this specific context - ask for more info before going all in on the one suggestion (and then arguing with people about your mistake! Come on, now. Refusal to self examine isn’t just a bad look, it’s dangerous.)
Thank you for your opinion and I’m sorry for hijacking your comment. I’m still not sure how to work this thing. 

There is no refusal to self-examine, here. Sometimes I wish there were to give the mind a rest. 

I don’t have the energy to hash out a difference of perspective with strangers on the internet. This was presented as a behavioral problem, a common one among dementia patients at that. Again, hopefully the OP got the help they were looking for!
It was presented that way and I get why you replied the way you did. 

The problem is we can’t assume the OP (or family members, in general) have explored all possible rule outs. 

Example. A family member with dementia stays with an adult child who isn’t familiar with UTI symptoms in general and especially not in patients who (because of dementia or because eg nerve endings in the relevant locations have been damaged) don’t report* the obvious symptoms. No pain on urination, no comment on blood in urine. The only symptoms are urinary frequency, which the adult child writes off as the parent “being old” and increasing confusion which is understood as worsening dementia. 

Nothing gets said to the doctor, no tests are done, everyone assumes it’s dementia. 

Until another adult child in the family recognizes the symptoms, and discovers that what we are dealing with is an advanced kidney infection and *delirium* resulting from it (not a behavioural issue). 

Increased thirst could indicate heart failure, kidney failure, and lots of things in between. 

Never take it for granted that a poster has the full medical picture. Quite often the account is partial. Especially because people with dementia often *cannot express their symptoms*. So we have to look for signs and guess and ask questions.
