I'm really sorry and this probably isn't what you need to hear, but short of medication, no. My dad was exactly the same. One night he woke me up about seven times. It's exhausting, stressful and very upsetting. 

All I can say is that I hear you and I understand :(
Medication.

Unfortunately, with dementia, there are no other options.  Their bodies no longer recognize being tired like we do.  I've had patients be up for days and days before even medication knocks them out.

My grandmother was like that.  And then she got mean and started hitting people too.  She would have died if she'd known she was acting that way.  We got her on medication and she was very happy till she passed away.  Medication isn't a bad thing with dementia but it is necessary.
That sounds exhausting. I’m sorry! I would talk to her doctor about melatonin. It is safe for people with dementia to use with minimal side effects. I would recommend trying this before any other medications are added as stronger drugs might have bad interactions with her current meds and could cause falls. I would also try to keep her awake and active during the day to promote better sleep at night. A lot of times people with dementia don’t know what to do throughout the day and don’t initiate activities on their own and sometimes it works to give them something to do.
I had my mom on diazepam during the day and Seroquel at night. Seroquel during the day was way too much for her to walk around safely. It worked great at night tho, she usually slept for about 6hours without waking up. I tried all different kinds of meds and that combo worked best for her. Check with your doc.
I'm in the same boat. My mother woke me three times last night ( where was evwryone?, can we orser take out?i need a second blanket?csn you make me hot tea?) and woke my kids once. She'll sleep maybe 2-4 hours and is up all night and then sleeps most of the day and gets anxiety. She gets effexor,divaprolex and chlorpromazine at night and the chlorpromazine should knock her out for the whole night but, it doesn't. melatonon doesnt help. i have'nt had a full night sleep since she came to live with me a year ago and its wearing on me. Dementia sucks. Dementia in a bipolar parent really sucks.  She has chronic pneumonia  this past year and gets very weak so she has had physical therapy to walk. She just got out of hospital then to nursing rehab care and back to my place. Getting her to do her nebulizer treatments is a battle. she wont do her physical therapy excercises without the therapist there. She doesn't get that she's a high risk factor with Covid with her pneumonia and shouldnt leave the house to go shopping for fun so everyday several times a day we argue about why she cant go to target or to a restaurant. She will out right lie and  say the soctor said it was okay for her to go out . She refuses to wear her memory patch. she forgets that she has eaten and will just keep eating tbrough out the night. She'll literaly take vwrything out of the fridge and freezer and leave it. She's melted teo
of my mugs and burned food in the micorwave countless times. she  doenst know what day ofbthe week it is or if its night or day. i bought the wall clock with the day,Date and time and it says if its morning or evening and she still is confused. She thinks everyday is christmas eve. She asks the same questions several times day. ( But somehow she aced that clock and three word memory test. -sigh). I'm praying for a better living situation for her that she can afford on her pension. She doenst make enough to live in assisted living but, makes too much for help from Medicare covering assisted living.
That's frustrating, especially after a marathon drive, very tiring!   I don't have any solutions for helping yr mom sleep, but I do leave notes on the kitchen island-counter for my mum when there's something out of the usual happening.   Half or full A4 size paper, msg printed clearly  eg   "Mum, (brother) is visiting for 3 days, he's sleeping in the spare room."  or   "I'm visiting friend for a few hours, I'll be home late afternoon."    You likely will be asked a zillion times where your dad is, might be best put out a note for her - it's probably quite upsetting for her, not having any memory nor idea what happened where is he.    good luck!
