My mom has to take a yearly drivers road test in order to keep her license.  She passes, but the moment she doesn't, her driving privileges will be gone.  I plan on selling the car then.
Mom lives with Dad and he is her primary caregiver. He has POA and it's active. 
I currently have my Mom's vehicle and her keys because I borrowed it since mine needed "fixed". Technically nothing wrong with mine, although it did need a oil change.
 He wants me to reason with her but we all know how that will go....
I'm working with the Alzheimer Association to form a action plan. Choices we've come up with so far are as follows: return vehicle with a shaved down key that will not work or return vehicle with a identical "look alike" key that will not work (I already have the look alike key in my possession).
She is asking for the vehicle back asap so I am pretty stressed about which situation will be the easiest to pull off and the right solution. 
They did mention removing the battery after returning it but that's not an option for us as she will be watching when we pull up. 
I understand your predicament. As a last resort her Dr will notify the DMV and pull her license. She isn't going to understand that at this point since she is adamant that nothing is wrong with her.
I wish you luck and peace with whatever solution works for your Mom.
[deleted]
I also recommend trying the unplug the battery/take it out strategy and reinforce to her that she cannot safely drive! Some people have also moved the car down the street when it’s “being serviced.” You could also appeal to her sense of right/wrong: “imagine if you hit someone, you injure or kill them. What would happen then?”

Some people respond well to a plan instead of just removing the keys altogether without anything to take its place. Arrange with family/neighbors/friends or even a transportation service to take her places and present that plan to her, along with: “I couldn’t live with it if anything happened to you on the road. I know you love the car and your independence. I want you to keep that independence, and it doesn’t have to be tied to the car. It is just transportation, and there’s plenty of ways to get somewhere.”
Disable the car... like remove the battery or something more subtle.  Then put a note in the space for the repair man explaining not to repair it...  but to call you or something.
Seconding disconnecting the battery - and leaving a note on the battery for service people to find.

Also, if you know who her doctor is, you should be able to call them to discuss that she's still insisting on driving despite being told she shouldn't. Ask if they can report her to the DMV. She doesn't necessarily have to go in for another appointment for them to report her if it's in her file already that she has alzheimer's. That's how I got my mother's license revoked, by talked to the nurse behind her back.

Also, if you check your state's DMV website, you may find there's a form online you can fill out, or download and mail in, to report an unsafe driver.
How old is she? Can you give her fake ones? Have you had her fill out POA paperwork or anything related? Is she diagnosed? Taking them from my mom was easy, I just took them and pretend the car had to be returned because of the lease.

You should attempt to stop her from driving if her Dr says she shouldn't be. She's a danger to those on the road. Maybe you can move it somewhere safe? A relatives home? (To avoid tickets or parking in the street?)
I got "lucky" and my dad took the car out (after I told him not to) and had emergency services called on him at Kroger because he seemed confused and disoriented. 

After that I told him the doctor said he couldn't drive anymore and I took the car to my house so he couldn't be tempted or forget.
I’m trying to report her to DMV but no answer- but yearly process that would be ideal.
Thank you so much.❤️
I agree with commenters like this one who insist that you do something in spite of her resistance. Keep in mind, she may have lucid moments, but overall she is not thinking clearly or rationally. The bottom line is that she has brain-altering dementia and should not have access to a vehicle -- ever! 

Don't worry about hurting her feelings. Take charge. You can expect her to object and rail against it, but stand firm anyway. It helps to give what sounds like a plausible reason: "The car needs to be taken care of. It isn't safe to drive right now. " (Blame the car, not the driver). "Where would you like to go? I'll be glad to drive you there." Distract her attention when she starts to get upset and don't try to offer rational  explanations or reasoning. She is past that now. 

Kudos to you for taking good care of her! It's hard, I know.  I empathize with what you're going through, having faced the same dilemma in our family.
Yeah, maybe take out the battery and be like "Darn, it's broken. No more driving!"
YES!! Dear God this is TERRIFYING!!! It is not a matter of what if, it’s a matter of when and who. How many lives will be risked while a plan of action is made? This needs to be stopped NOW. “Steal” the car and put it somewhere else  if you have too but a person with diagnosed dementia or Alzheimer’s should ever be behind the wheel.
Yes- POA is filed, she’s 63 and diagnosed. She’s in that weird spot where she is head strong and can appear lucid for short periods so it’s misleading to others.  We’ve tried and she gets nasty and shuts us out so we have to tread lightly. She won’t move she’s adamant about staying. The docs/lawyers/ state said unfortunately if she doesn’t listen we have to accept it and monitor until something happens and we can fully step in and take control.
Sorry I have not replied, I didn't notice the notification. I was there with my mom, but a few years ago, and it's SUPER confusing to people who don't know them. They try to keep the farce going but it eventually shines through that they are having mental troubles. My mother turned 62 this year, but she's late stage. Diagnosed in 2016. She could drive then, semi-hold a part time job, but barely. Things just started repeating for her, over and over. I can totally understand. It's very difficult and you have to be a negotiator to get things done. I would, if you haven't, communicate with her Dr, or whomever is her POA and get the signed notice that she's unable to manage things. You may get support from the Dr in terms of what to do, or how to manage her and safely take her off the streets. Eventually she won't remember and it'll be easier but it's scary that she's still driving. Should she hurt anybody, that would be very confusing and difficult and not to mention costly. I dont recall if you're in the US, but try to find help where you can, and support. If you have any questions feel free to reach out. It's difficult to go alone.
