They do. 

You could start to write up a life story for your husband, including his character. This will help caretakers distinguish between apathy caused by dementia and depression, and natural einzelgangers. 

I'm a psychologist working in geriatric care: part of my job is to suss out who needs to be alone, and who shouldn't be alone, for how long and during what part of the day. You know your loved one best, so use that information to your advantage!

And we see a big improvement with our clients once they move into the home: one lady spent all day in bed due to her depressed partner, or a man who did nothing but smoke and watch tv. Both are now clearly doing much better. Meanwhile others still really miss their homes and feel so alone all the time. It's not bad advice, it just doesn't always fit.
In the same way that it isn’t good for you even without dementia.

Only hanging around a couple of people limits your skills and experiences.
I’m just taking a guess here. My conversations with family usually aren’t in-depth discussions of topics that stimulate my brain as much as the conversations I have with friends. Close friends and I discuss religion and politics and alternate paths our lives could have taken and how that compares to our current lives and such. Some of these things aren’t ever discussed with my family or in varying degrees. It’s much more stimulating getting to know more about someone and letting them know more about you. That was done with family years ago. Lol. Side note, I suspect this is also the lure of cheating on your spouse.

ETA: my particular interests aren’t necessarily those of my husband and vice versa. He loves guns, and I can’t stand to hear about them. I’ve been listening to this topic I care nothing about for 30 years now. He needs to talk guns with someone else. Maybe that’s a family member or maybe it’s a friend or acquaintance. But it can’t be me. He can talk about it, but I can’t engage in it enough to stimulate his mind. I have interests that are the same with him. We just need other people.
It does, but sometimes you need a bigger social group to get his brain to be more active. When you think about it, we present differently to members of our family than we do to friends. We're different people to everyone we know in a way. He just wants your husband to tap into his long term memory to help keep those connections in his brain maintained. If he prefers to be alone, that is his choice. If so, find hobbies for him that are both things he's done before and enjoyed and new (but not terribly hard) hobbies to add.
I was given the same advice with my mom. She never seemed very social to me, but having connections with other people, even ones they can't remember, helps them practice conversation skills and makes the present more interesting. I had no idea how much my mom needed to know other people were around toll she got worse.
Yes, it's true that socialisation outside of the home is important otherwise lack of stimulation does lead to worsening of condition.  During the time my partner lived with me, there were times when I had to leave him at home by himself for short periods and I found he got worse.  Can your husband go for a walk at all?  Even walking outside will help and you can talk about what's going on around you or talk to people in the street.  Go to the local park.  Visit your neighbours. It doesn't have to be too challenging.

Good luck!
I’m so glad people like you are in a sub like this. Thank you. Seriously.
Thank you, that helps. Other than retiring, his social contacts haven't changed. He talks to my son in law, and our daughter, he talks to her in laws, he spends lots of time with our grandson. And he wasn't all that social at work.
He's never been given to in-depth discussions, with anyone. He did have one friend at work that he misses, from what I understand their conversations were sports and fishing. Sadly, he retired suddenly due to Covid (he's high risk and was scared about going back to work), and was not able to get that friend's phone number.  I suppose the sports conversations would be the one thing missing, nobody at home is much into sports.
We have family living with us. There are five people living in the house, so he's never alone. And he does talk to the neighbors on either side when he's outside.
This is why the doctor wants him to widen his circle. My husband hasn’t worked since late January and he won’t work again. I need to help him widen his circle as well. We really have no idea what our spouses talk to people about while at work. You may be surprised at the conversations he was part of. My husband would be surprised at the wide range of conversations I have with coworkers. I’m out of shape and act like I’m allergic to exercise, yet a coworker got a Peloton bike this week so I’ve been part of several discussions of those and other exercise programs in the past few days. Those conversations stimulated my brain and even made me ponder what I can do to improve my health. If I didn’t work, I would have missed out on that.
