You have to care for your Dad. The strain of giving care to someone with Alzhiemer's is tremendous for a spouse. His health will suffer. He's already expressed that he can't care of her at home. He already feels anguish, guilt, and distress. Do not add to that. Unless you are willing to take your Mother into your home, offer your Dad unwavering support for his difficult decisions.  She will decline no matter where she receives care. Finding a her safe environment will allow your Dad to be a spouse instead of a caregiver.
> However I heard that cognitive abilities can take a nose dive once someone with Alzheimer's is no longer at home.

My mom is in a memory care facility and has been for 3 years now. I think she gets more social interaction there than she was getting at her house where she lived alone.

As to the cognitive ability taking a nosedive, I don't know and I don't know if it has been studied -- I wouldn't go just based on anecdotal stories. If you think about it, somebody with Alzheimers is on a downward trajectory anyway so how would you know how much of their decline was going to happen anyway and how much is due to their living situation? Also... it kinda sounds like your father needs a break -- being the sole care giver for somebody can be exhausting. It is hard to see a parent decline, but it is what it is.

However, as others have said, many facilities are having covid spikes right now. My mom's is as well. I'm not sure this is the best time to move somebody into one -- I'd wait until this national covid spike is over if you have any options. I'm hoping things improve in the spring -- and hopefully with an approved vaccine.
Moved my mother into an assisted living memory care facility over the summer, the COVID test had to be done within a three day limit or she would not have been admitted. Her mood has improved greatly as well as her appetite through the social stimulation there. Her facility has only had two cases of COVID all year, and they were staff members. They do run COVID tests and quarantine residents to their “houses” should someone show symptoms. 

There is a risk, but her quality of life (an ours) has improved significantly.
[deleted]
For us, it hasn't been the care home that caused the downturn exactly, it's been the restrictive measures on visiting that we have had to deal with all year. What these lockdowns have done to her have broken my heart.
No first hand experience but close. Know that a good care facility can provide much more social interaction than is often found at home.
There are different levels of care.  Around here there are:

1. boarding home type places, where you get a room/apt, 1-3 meals, and are left alone.
2. independant living places, where you get an apt, 1-3 meals, and are prompted to do things like activities, come to meals, meds are checked, etc.
3. Memory wards, which are locked, and everyone is watched for behaviours/escaping.
I work in a psychogeriatric care. 

Clients have a hard time processing the move, so they are more confused in the first few months. They suddenly lose all their set routines, which makes it very apparent how far the dementia has already gotten. 

Once they settle, you'll often see some improvements, due to the activity, and surroundings for for their mental state. And finally they will decline again, as it's a progressive disease. 

And all the other good things have already been said. It's not an easy choice, and you are not a bad person.
My mom has had plateaus and drops. I do recommend carefully checking the communities. The first we moved my mom into swore they were well equipped for Alzheimer's. Within a month, she had wandered away twice, both times they have no idea how long she'd been outside. To quote the director "We don't know why the door alarms didn't go off." The second time, they told us they were not equipped for her. They also wouldn't refund the $5,000 move-in fee they'd just charged us.

The second community hides the doors. The only door residents can see are the front doors that are locked and those alarms work well. Plus there's a check-in desk right next to the doors that is always manned. Other doors are painted with murals, so the residents barely notice them.

My mom's mood tanked immediately after we moved her into the first place. She started  making a lot of "I'd rather slit my throat" comments that freaked the staff out. I'd get 1 a.m. calls saying she'd threatened suicide again and that I needed to drive over and spend the night with her again. It was exhausting. 

This second place only hires staff who go through an Alzheimer's certification program (can't remember the name of the certificate off the top of my head), they have completely different (better) approaches that are far more helpful. She still gets angry, but when she does, they'll do something they know calms her. They'll pull out some chocolate and pour a glass of wine or pour a beer. Then, one of the aides will sit with her and put on travel videos from her hometown in the UK. As they watch the video, the aide will ask her questions about her childhood, etc. It's a technique that works well.
Better you move someone into a memory care facility, earlier in the disease then later.  The adjustment is much harder depending on how much the disease has progressed. Also as others have said, you  need to prioritize the physical and mental health of the spouse. 

It is not unusual for the one with Alzheimer to outlive the one without.
[deleted]
I wish I could upvote this more than once. Even just the little things like arguing about whether my mom had to take her pills, whether she should be driving, whether she could go out for a walk by herself, put a huge strain on our relationship when I stayed with her for a couple months because she didn't want me "parenting" her.  It was a nonstop battle like between a mom and a toddler who needs a nap and won't take one. 

Once she went to assisted living and I could just visit with her instead of parenting her, our relationship improved 1000%. I was able to just spend time with her instead of trying to control her. OP, that's a way to explain it to your dad if he's having guilt, that it's not about ditching her, it's about handing off the nursing/inmate part of the relationship, so when he spends time with her, it's just about having quality time again, in whatever way they can.

Regarding a decline - Any change in environment can lead to an immediate decline to some degree because it's disorienting. I'm not a medical person, but I think of it like they can't rely on the same pathways that have already formed in their brain to tell them where the kitchen is, where the bedroom is, what the routine is. It's all new, and her brain isn't going to learn "dinner's in the dining hall at 5 every night now" in the same way you or I would. 

She'll probably still talk about having to go downstairs to fix dinner for everyone, things like that, sometimes. Or "your father's in the other room" when you visit, when you know he clearly isn't. Things that haven't changed (in her brain) are going to seem to you like a steep decline, possibly like a break with reality. At least that's what I experienced, moving my mom. She couldn't cover for her mistakes because she didn't know what the routine was supposed to look like. And things she couldn't do became more obvious, like using the tv remote, once my dad was gone and not doing those things for her.
Thank you. I needed to hear this.
I agree with this.  It takes a very hard toll on the primary caregiver. Studies have shown that the added stress of caregiving really lead to that person declining as well.  Anecdotally, my father was one to ‘suck it up’ and not take much outside help. I lived with them full time and took care of her too, but there came a time when I had to step aside for myself and my daughter’s well-being.  He finally put my mother in a day-care type setting the then ultimately full time, but by then it was too late.  He made it about a year but succumbed to a heart attack. My mother died 7 months later.  She (and he) suffered 13 years after her diagnosis.  It was brutal on us all.  

Caregivers-take care of yourselves.  Other family members/friends-take care of the caregivers.
Yes! www.alz.org and support groups are meeting online, do you can join ANY group that fits your schedule. Great for you and your Dad!

Also, my Mom actually improved after going into full time assisted living. As was mentioned above, the level of activity and engagement increased for her, especially for the first 18 months. Hardest decision of our adult lives was to place her, but looking back, it was the right decision for our family.
There’s a fourth type, where my parents are—a boarding home for people with dementia. They get all the care they used to get in a locked memory care ward, with the added plus of an intimate homelike setting and a much better ratio of caregivers to residents. And it costs us less than the memory care facility. I’m a big fan.
What are you talking about? How many nursing homes have you been in recently? How are you privy to the medications they’re giving patients? Nursing homes are not randomly drugging patients to make them sleep all day. You sound insane.
