I know that he's just gotten home from the hospital but I would also recommend having him checked for a potential UTI. Absolutely, any change in routine, & especially something as traumatic as a hospitalization can result in a decline. With routine & care, he may regain some or all of what he has lost but it is highly individualized. However, I've found that with any sudden decline, it is usually prudent to make sure a UTI is not also in play, as many of the symptoms indicative of a decline can also be caused or exacerbated by a UTI. Sending you & your family love & support & we hope that your Grandpa-in-law is feeling more himself again. Xo
I think this is super common. How long was he hospitalized? my dad who has Alzheimer's was hospitalized after falling and was in the hospital for 3 days. I noticed a marked decline after he came home; couldn't use the bathroom anymore, was shuffling around a lot, had more trouble talking. It took a little time but he mostly "recovered" and is back to his usual self.
It’s worth testing for a UTI if you can. That can cause confusion, delirium even in healthy older adults. It could also be stress/agitation - or of course worsening symptoms. We’ve learned that skill loss looks more like little cliffs than gradual. Key skills are lost that propped others up. Also, for us a small dose of anti anxiety medication stopped the rummaging/escaping (lexapro). It was a godsend. Best of luck to you! If he’s like my mother in law, he will get miraculously better as soon as you’re about to go to the doctor haha
Did the hospital find a cause for the dizziness/vertigo? Sudden-onset dizziness can be a symptom of stroke. Even mild strokes can affect wider brain function and cognition. Infections can also cause the kind of changes you describe. Has anyone checked your Grandpa's temperature? Either way, it is difficult to know what the future will bring if it's not clear what is causing the current problems. You may want to have a talk with your Grandpa's doctor.
Well, unfortunately, with my grandma, it happens suddenly. 

For an example: Monday she was fine, but at Tuesday she fell from her bed and peed herself. It was gaming changing to her, now it feels like her mental state got way worse. 

So from what I experienced, yeah, it happens like you're seeing. :( 

In one day they are ok, the other something can change. It's unpredictable.
Have his medications changed? Every time my grandmother was admitted her behaviour changed, usually because the doctors would change her medications for one reason or another.
Agree with the UTI comments here-  based on experience. 
I have also seen sudden decline as well. 
It’s a very challenging journey.
If there was an ear infection or pain, it's likely as the infection clears up, he may start to improve. My mom got angry, extremely confused (more than usual), and incontinent when she had a UTI and again when she broke her wrist. She did the same when she went through a spell where she was only sleeping for an hour or two a night.
Hey there, I know this is a bit off topic & I apologize for that. Quick question to make sure I'm understanding this correctly- a UTI can be seen in a patient and they will start to experience AD symptoms afterwards?
He got out last Sunday after being in for 4 days. Thanks. I just didn't know if he should have been back to "normal" by now, or if it took a fair amount of time.
Check her for a silent UTI. These are symptoms.
How long has it been since her fall?  And prior to it, she was fully self sufficient?
No worries. So, unlike people who suffer from a UTI & are younger (who would complain of things like painful urination, fever, chills & lower abdominal pain), older adults often struggle with behavioral changes as a result of a urinary tract infection. You might see increased confusion. agitation, withdrawal etc. Unfortunately, for those already dealing with dementia,  these type of symptoms can be overlooked or explained away by age or possible progression & the underlying UTI can get worse & eventually the infection can spread to the bloodstream. The rule of thumb is that if an elderly person, ESPECIALLY one who is already dealing with dementia, shows signs of decline suddenly, check for a UTI to exclude that as a possibility.
as with anything, it really just depends on the person but anything outside of their normal routine can really throw them for a loop
I'm sorry, English is not my first language, what do you mean by silent uti and those are symptoms for what? I'm really sorry I didn't understand and thank you very much
Well, it's 4 days since she fell, and she wasn't fully self sufficient but she did most things alone, we just needed to remind the medicine, to drink the right amount of water and things like that.
Awesome explanation. Thank you very much for taking the time to explain this. I never heard of this scenario before, so I was really interested, due to the bacteria involved with UTIs and seeing if it fit into my AD theory :)
Yea, I've noticed that. I have come to dread big family get-togethers, he is easily aggravated for a few days afterwards. This is just a very dramatic change, it's never been this bad.
Elderly, especially those with dementia, do not usually show symptoms of a UTI. That’s why it’s “silent.”  Usually the only symptoms are sudden changes in behavior, falling, or more confusion.

Edited to say my mother has one now. She just returned from the hospital and rehab after leg surgery.
I'm sorry; I hope he bounces back.
Oh, thank you for explaining! I'm gonna talk to my dad and aunt this morning to talk about
