Elders don't remember what happened, but they'll remember something bad happened, and be sad for a long time.  

Please ask your parents to check with the staff before telling your grandpa, they'll ask them to refrain from telling him.  It'd ruin his day, make their work much harder, and he'll just forget anyway.  Then your parents would have remind him again, and again, and again, breaking his heart each time.  Not necessary, and actually kinda cruel.
Our family no longer tells our mother about deaths.  She relives the knowledge over and over.   Very hard for her and unecessarily traumatic.  We put our mother’s well being ahead of our own desire to share/tell the truth.
I agree with the others that it’s best not to tell, but if they insist, he should be told only once. The time after, if he asks, your uncle is “away.” 

I still agree with everyone else, but I wasn’t sure how set your parents are on telling him, so I wanted to give you ideas just in case in case you aren’t able to convince them.
I would talk with the staff at the memory care place but if I were in your position I wouldn’t tell him.
My dads dog passed away in April and he still cries every day remembering it as if it happened yesterday. His emotions are so strong because he can’t remember the healing that happens day by day. He’s not bad enough to not remember that it happened, but still.
I echo other users comments and think you should talk with the staff before telling him. When my grandpa passed away, we didn’t tell my grandma because we new she wouldn’t remember. The staff at her memory care facility told us it could be really traumatizing to her if we had to remind her constantly that passed away. It does suck, and while it seems unfair to keep it from them, it ultimately can do more harm.
[deleted]
DO NOT TELL HIM. We had a family member who insisted telling my grandmother the same. All it did was make her cry like it was brand new horrible news every time she was reminded. There were no stages of grief, just endlessly finding out for the first time that her only son was dead. It was beyond awful and there was no point. Telling her that he had to work that day worked just as well, once the jerk who insisted telling her was silenced.
Stress makes alzheimers/dementia accelerate.    Please ask them not to.

Losing my brother 3 years ago has wrecked havoc on my dad's alzheimers.
He may surprise you. My mother is in late-stage Alzheimer’s and remembers those that have passed. My paternal grandmother died earlier this year (she lived with my parents for her last four years) and my mother remembers that she’s gone and she continues to remember that her parents are dead. 

It might have to do with the fact that these are older people and the natural progression of life is that older people die first and that makes logical sense to her even in her mental state. However, she’s recently latched onto the idea that my nephew has died (he hasn’t) and she has memory of that day over day, she forgets that we tell her he’s ok. 

I do think that you should continue to tell those suffering from Alzheimer’s of developments affecting their loved ones despite the pain it might bring to them. What happens when he starts asking why his son stops visiting? I’d rather they know the truth, even if only fleetingly, than thinking they’ve been forgotten or abandoned.
Most people experienced with those who have dementia will agree with me. Do not tell him. (Assuming he has dementia.)
I would tell him but dont expect him to remember the next day or you may end up having someone who grieves over and over everyday because they Dont remember. When my Mom was told her dad had passed away 15 yrs prior she grieved all day- very difficult. Next day she saw a pic and wanted to call him and we had to tell her again he was already gone and same thing- very difficult to deal with. After that we took down family pics because we didnt want her to keep going thru the grief over and over and honestly it was emotionally exhausting for all of us. 
After that if she asked we just said oh they are out and we can call later and she would forget she asked. 
Sorry- one of those hard to deal with Alz things. 😞
I wouldn't tell him at all. You will only upset him, but still he won't be able to remember this. Let him live in his own world (in which probably even his parents are still alive, that's how this disease works...) without bad news.
Agreeing with the others, my grandmother isnt quite as advanced, although does require assistance in her daily living. We lost an uncle/her brother inaw last year, and recently a very close friend of the family that she has known for over 40 years. I don't agree that she was told, for the reasons others stated, but what happened in reality was that she doesn't remember that these people are gone on the day to day, and she doesn't mention them ever, but if you specifically bring up that person by name she will remember and focus on the death of that person. She will not recall any other memory of them, only their recent death. Speaking about adjacent people (like a spouse of the deceased) she won't mention them or bring it up either. It's a sad, and fascinating disease.
Yeah, those were my exact thoughts as well. Thank you.
I’ll be sure to pass along everyone’s comments. Thanks!
Ultimately, I think they’re going to tell him and take this approach. It’s a lose-lose situation.
This is the advice I usually got. If nothing else, I thought it was helpful emotionally for my family to tell my dad some things once - otherwise, I felt like I was holding back a secret. But after that, you just say they're traveling or busy or something.
I agree with this, but it's very hard not to feel the need to share the information.  Ultimately, I came to believe that it's not important to share these sad milestones. But at the same time, I didn't really find that anything that was spoken was recalled for very long.  Those moments passed quickly.  

It was interesting that my mom definitely remembered if another resident had treated her a certain way, but I believe the visual recall was a huge assist in bringing forth those associated feelings.  

My experience was that the disease attacked the most recent memories first, and it enabled the older memories to replace them.  My mom regressed so much, but her childhood was obviously a happy, but strict one, given her typical demeanor.
We have lost two relatives. Decided not to tell my mom. She seems to keep an echo of the deep sadness without remembering what happened. It's cruel.
That’s rough. I can’t even imagine.
They did tell him and they said it was like he didn’t even understand or hear what they said. So they showed him the obituary, which he might not even be able to read and longer, and they said he was not phased.
Yeah my fear was that he’d just get worse.
Unfortunately, my uncle had not visited him for years before this. I’m not sure if they’d even spoken over the phone in a while. Heartbreaking either way.
Hopefully it will work out. Some people do go this route. For people with dementia, it seems like all their loved ones are a mix of passed in the present and alive in an older time. Even me being alive, my mom would think I was a little kid sometimes. My mom would talk about having to get home to her parents. I’m not sure it really matters how long the other person has been gone. Often, time is a bit of an abstract concept to them. 

I hope things work out!
Then what is the point of telling besides cruelty?
Thanks for the wisdom and for sharing your experience. My grandfather just tells me about the time he was working at the A&P and then asks if I run the company I work for yet!
They said he has a right to know his son had passed away.
He has a right to not being tortured by sadness or regrets.
Look, I agree with you in that he shouldn’t be told. It isn’t my decision to make as my mother and father are his caretakers. I tried to convince them it was a mistake and they blew me off.
I know this is off topic from your original post, but I just want to say I feel your struggle as the grandchild not agreeing with the parent's way of handling the grandparent. I recently went through a bout of drama in this regard and it is hard on everyone. I hope now that he has the news he is still at peace with the loss. And I am also sorry for your family's loss, and that you have to deal with this at all.
Sorry, for some reason I didn’t get this was the poster I was responding to. I thought it was another’s opinion. I know you have no say. I would warn the caretakers, though.
Thank you I appreciate it!
All good! Thank you!
