My experience is that my Dad can barely use his phone. He doesn’t learn new skills.He just can’t mentally follow or remember.Good luck.
For patients with Dementia and Alzheimers, the ideal games for them is Jigsaw Puzzles.  While puzzles are therapeutic, they also provide exercise in memory and are said to improve brain functions, especially short-term memory.  You can choose picture puzzle that the patient is interested in.
I've been trying to get my dad to play flat screen video games but it is a no go so far.  Not even Nintendo wii games that use one controller thumbstick and one button.

He's able to play some easy virtual reality games as hand movement feels like actual hand movement,  .  But I have to set up the game completely for him and hes to the point where he spaces out and doesn't know where he is anymore sonetimes.  So people at that point can get scared sometimes  that the world suddenly looks like a cartoon world.  But I have my own headset so am in the world with him  and my dad in general doesn't seem to be scared.  Still, I'm stuck spending time with my dad right now and this is fun for me.  Can leave him to socialize with others too this way in vr.   He doesn't ever find anything interesting and this is the closest he's come to interest.

Word searches seem to work
Something like Stardew Valley or Animal Crossing maybe?
I seocnd what kartoomey said.  I doubt her will be able to play and it will just frustrate him.
Any Pinball Fx games for their easy user-friendliness could work!
Same as kartomy 🖕🏻we were resetting my Mom’s  cable over and over and had to buy several remotes because she lost them (forgot what to do with them or threw them out).  When she did use them it she would press all buttons scrambling the cable so it stopped not working.  My mom was a huge book reader prior and lover of crosswords, and always had the tv on 24-7 but we knew she was declining when she would only look at pics on magazines (and realized she had the fact that she was having more and more trouble with reading for years).  Picture books can help!

Edit: typos
I've been doing some work with an incredible video series call Memory-Lane that's specifically created for people with dementia, if you're interested. It's being developed by the grandson of a person with Alzheimer's based on research that shows the benefits of sensory stimulation connected to memory—visual, scent, hearing—in reorienting, calming, and engaging people with dementia. The videos help summon memories through music and imagery and there are little "quizzes" available. There are [some videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC031n0ORReeIUIBchB0AccQ) on Youtube if you want to check it out. They're also available on AppleTV.
We tried jigsaw puzzles for a bit with my grandmother. Even got ones in Amazon that saw they're for dementia/elderly with bigger pieces. Selected animal scenes as she lives animals. She finally told us she does not like doing puzzles, her hands shake too much from her essential tremors. We were doing the puzzles with her, but she would not do much and wanted us to glue and frame every puzzle after putting it together one time. Now I know, she didn't want to do them again. Oh well :)
Maybe sliding pieces from a puzzle app on a tablet will be easier and more enjoyable for her!
I'll try, but she almost never wants to look at her iPad, unless I pull up photos to show her. Thanks
