That's amazing!  I don't think we have a deep enough understanding of what's going on to do much more than make guesses and estimates.  I'd consider contacting a university hospital program that does dementia studies and get retested.  I've heard some crazy stories.
Dementia tests are made in a way that's hard to fake. If you can't draw anymore practice won't help you etc. 

I think it's time for a second opinion, because this went way outside protocol. Frontal lobe dementia can decline very slowly, but this sounds off.
 I'm sorry about your fall and your diagnosis, but I'm so glad you've stuck around.   


I think the life expectancy numbers come from people who are severely impacted by their dementia forgetting to do things that keep them from getting hurt. 

I moved in to help my grandma and she is 86 with bad knees and poor mobility. She forgets to use her cane, leading to her being more likely to fall. This is one instance in which a persons dementia has directly lowered their life expectancy. I hope this helps.
OP here 
Let me start from the beginning - I was in the hospital where they were changing my AFIB meds and wanted to be where they could monitor me with a wireless EKG. Anyway, woke next morning to 5-6 neurologist and students asking questions like if I’d ever been hit in the head  injuries and such. Next morning, more neurologist, including the head of the Dept with more questions and ordering more test.

They left me orders to see a Phd Dr who put me through test with her asst’s. Took round disk from 3 pegs and stack them from largest to smallest, look at a Church like drawing and redrew it. I thought I did well.

Went back to the PhD Dr who bluntly told us to get guns out of the house and get my affairs in order bc I had dementia and had 4-7 years to live. She seemed surprised that my wife started to cry. She found her some tissue. I thought they had the wrong person. A year later I went for the same test from same PhD. She said I did better but attributed it to me telling her I had read into the test and dementia.

Anyway, MRI last year showed little change. This year the new PhD told my wife there was no change.

I am furious my wife did not conference me into their call. I have a million questions like is this normal or were the other dr’s wrong or is she wrong. Now I guess she took the week of Christmas off. 

Has anyone else or their love ones stay at the same level. I am furious (don’t send the cops, my wife is not any physical danger) that I won’t get another chance to talk to her until after the new year.

Any answers please, I’m so upset and confused I want to cry.
Have you had a PET scan? There’s a pretty good chance your insurance won’t cover it, so if you haven’t had one, that is likely why. If you have Medicare, I think a PET scan will be covered. Ask your doctor about this because our neurologist told us a PET scan makes an FTD diagnosis easier to confirm but most insurance will not cover it.
My question is were they wrong then or wrong now. And I am in a university system. All the dr can see the other dr’s notes and the test the other drs ordered.
TY
I don't have any answers, but I would try seeing different a doctor who specializes in dementia. Don't get upset with the Dr or your wife, you'll be able to talk to them soon about your condition. It sounds like it was just circumstance, hopefully they aren't trying to hide anything from you.
Sometimes in life we don't know exactly what's going on, and when that happens to me, I just try my best to take good care of myself and have a good time. Enjoy the life you DO have. It's pretty cool that you haven't gotten worse, right!? You have more time with your loved ones. I'm happy for you and I wish you the best. Medicine and science isn't exact.
Thanks so much. When I was getting all the test run, A PET Scan was suggested. My private insurance (MetLife) said “we know you have it so we’re not spending $10k on another test. 
The Dr’s said my brain had shrunk. I asked them how they knew that when they did not know how big it was to begin with? They spit and spattled amounts to themselves but never gave me a good answer.
My GP is very good at getting test done but couldn’t make them do that. My sodium got low and he sent me to have another MRI done. My Neurologist pulled my old MRI and compared the two. He said there was little loss in size and from what I have read and seen, there was not a lot “dead areas”.  
I can’t argue with Met Life’s Dr.’s when they wanted me to do another mechanical type test ( my words, they just made me call back list, what things we from list a and what on the other, math test, which was where I’ve always done well in, and reaction, which I did poorly). 
But this PhD said I didn’t have it but I did have depression. The one thing I am not is depressed. I see my grandchildren all the time and travel with my wife from 30 years of savings. 
I just need to hear what the PhD Dr tells me. 
But if I win the lottery (I don’t play) I’ll pay for my own PET scan. 
Thanks for the suggestion though, I will run it past my Dr when I see him again.
Tu
I’m new to learning about FTD. My husband was diagnosed with mild cognitive impairment of the frontal and temporal lobes earlier this year. That means he’s not at the dementia stage yet, but I am already seeing signs that it is slowly progressing. I’ve actually known something was off for three years or so, but I wasn’t able to get a diagnosis other than possible depression a few years ago. I think depression is very common as a mis-diagnosis in the early stages since his personality and temperament was changing more than his memory and cognition at that point. He can still “pass” those cognition tests on some days, but the neurologist saw enough of his confusion with understanding the directions to the tests the first time to realize there was something off. By the end of the first visit, he was already suggesting frontal and temporal lobe issues. An appointment with a neuropsychologist helped with the official diagnosis. I don’t think his MRI contributed to the diagnosis. It seems like it had more to do with their interactions with him. My husband probably didn’t see anything off about those interactions but I did and so did the doctors.

If you asked my husband, he would say he has memory problems more than anything. That’s not what I see. I see that he has personality changes. He is detached and also sometimes abrasive now. Socially he is more awkward. He gets frustrated and defensive easier. This last part may be due to the fact that he has trouble figuring things out. Technology is hard for him. I have to “fix” things on the computer and phone for him often. He can’t figure out the remote and how to use the apps on the tv. Everything he orders for his lifelong hobby becomes an ordeal, likely because he ordered it wrong. He doesn’t see these things, but I do. Maybe you’d be interested to hear a list of things your wife has seen. Would that help you?

It’s possible that you just weren’t as far along 4 years ago as the doctors first thought. Or maybe you’ve just been progressing slower than they expected. I’ve read online that the average life expectancy for FTD is 8-10 years from time of diagnosis. What I don’t know, though, is how many years early my husband’s diagnosis was. Maybe he has more like 12-15 years or maybe not. Maybe that explains your doctor saying you had 4 years left if he thought you were further along than you really were. I have no answers for you, but I want to let you know I understand the frustration, fear, and sadness. I feel it far more than my husband. Sometimes I think he is living his best life right now since he is no longer working and enjoying what we are calling an early retirement. I’m the one carrying the weight of it all. Be extra kind to your wife since she is probably feeling the same things I feel.
Thanks. It is hardest on the spouse or caregiver such as son or daughter. Memory or calling something it’s not, like seeing a shoe, knowing it’s a shoe but calling it a box is where I am. 
My GP gave me a low dose of Xanax to calm me down. It bothers me to snap at my wife of 38 years bc she’s the only thing keeping me out of the state hospital. Thanks for your observations on your husband’s health. Best of luck to both of you.
If you have the PPA/language variant, do you think that contributes to your wondering if you’ve been misdiagnosed? If language is your challenge, but not much else is being affected at this point, I can see how on a good day, or even just a good hour, a doctor may not see the issues. I hope you have plenty of time before it worsens. Based on this conversation, you seem to be coping well with the language difficulties. Thank you for taking the time to talk with me. Best wishes!
Yes, I go for days wo the issues I normally have. Only Dr’s have been able to spot it but the way I talk makes people dismissive of me anyway. I don’t go deep into a subject with anyway. I remember making a point at work and the guy I was talking to wanted me to get the credit. When he told me tell them what I just said, I could not recall. Luckily he picked up and filled in the blanks.
