Have you tried playing soothing music? And reassuring him with kind and calm words. Don't engage with the anger and anxiety, but empathize and redirect the conversation. 
"Thank you for the reminder, I will be extra careful. We'll be at such and such a place soon. What should we do when we first arrive? Grab some lunch?" 
Just something that acknowledges his anxiety but redirects to something else.
And yes, the music may be helpful. His favourite songs. Sing along.
My husband used to get this and I started singing songs (not really songs so much as things like take me out to the ball game, or mares eat oats etc) he would bob his head and they would give him so sense of familiarity for the car ride that soothed him a bit.  Another thing that helped some is I would tell him repeatedly where we were going and what street we would turn next at.  I would slow (if I could) so he could see the street and repeat that we were turning on it. And that helped but it was more taxing than singing ditties.
Sitting in the back can help as they don’t see the road. L Theanine is a natural relaxer that can help some about thirty minutes before.
Music used to work for my mom. She gets so anxious that she throws up every time, no matter how long the trip is. We just try not to bring her anymore. The last time I did, I had to take her to the doctor. She got so angry that there was a "fat guy sitting there - HOW CAN YOU NOT SEE HIM?" She kept pointing over the speedometer and trying to grab the wheel. Her doctor has switched her to virtual visits only because she was so upset and locked herself in the doctor's office bathroom while screaming. If she needs more care than that, they have the nurse at her memory care community do injections and such. More than that, we don't know what we'll do.
Have you tried asking questions, like what’s going on with ________? (Pro tip, before the car starts and a topic they will talk on and on and on about)
My mom was very well behaved when the driver was someone she didn’t know , like taxi/Uber. I wonder if she was afraid we’re  “giving her away “ when I/dad were the drivers.
