My husband told my MIL that the insurance company recommended it for everyone over the age of \_\_\_to establish a baseline.   It seemed to work because she never questioned it.
Convince him to have a comete geriatric check up, cognitive function is included. Tell him that it is smart to have a baseline assessment while he is well so that later issues can be recognized and dealt with quickly.
Good luck
Been where you are. I went with my mom to a doctor’s appointment and asked for a neuropsychological evaluation.
Have a chat with her and be totally honest. then she can suggest to your Dad that he have a full checkup and include it. Might also have her look for signs of Parkinsons. Also might see if he can get some PT. falls can be from different causes. If he doesnt get any exercise his muscles and balance have degraded. There are things he can do very carefully and ever seated. balance can be done even holding onto a bedpost or support. The doctor would be great with thisor a neurologist if he has one. Might also if you havent walk his house and make it safe for him. 

he sounds like my dad (94), never anything wrong, he doesnt have problems and doesnt need help. he lies to his doctors and puts on a brave face.  I give him plenty of room but when things need to be done I just do em. he's at a point where he's starting to accept it.

Best of luck.
Talk to you doctor. She should have zero issues with doing a cognitive test on your father without ever saying you had anything to do with it. She can present it as just a normal baseline test. 

And our parents will accept it from a doctor more than they will ever accept it from a child.
My mom got one of those simple "doctor office" tests.  Yeah, she failed.  But it's mostly her memory.  She understands discussions, she doesn't always remember, which is why I repeat things so much.  

Since she added zoloft for depression (first time in her life), I've noticed her memory retention is MUCH better.  Not perfect, but better.  I didn't think it would do that, but great.  

When I can visit again, I'll give her that same simple test and see what happens.  

She knows who she is, who her family is, can identify photos from the 1940s (who's in them, where it was taken--down to the name of the park or the address of the house, what the event was), so I'm not too worried yet.  I validate when she gets things right but let her know that she *has* forgotten things.  

Some of her confusion is that she's been in lockdown in assisted living without a lot of thinking required.  I'm hoping they get vaccinated soon so I can visit again and get her brain going a bit more.
>*Convince him to have a complete* *~~geriatric~~* *check up,* 

He will *hate* the word, "geriatric." Say, "... over 65 check-up to establish baseline ..."
My dad's from England and was raised with the "Stiff upper lip" ideal. Physical pain he has no issues talking about, however when it comes to mental health he is more hesitant to ask for assistance. He does see a counselor, however when she asks how he's doing he tends to say "I'm quite well, thank you!" Which, I understand he's trying to be polite, but she might take it as "Oh there's nothing wrong." (Although she has been great at weeding out the truth every now and then lol)

I can understand to a point why he might be weary of asking for help with things like dementia, depression, etc. Back in his day, if you had anything of the sort you were thrown into the loony bin. I was actually the one to reassure him to reach out to his counselor at the beginning. He was feeling VERY suicidal and I put it as "If you don't seek help now and attempt suicide and live, they WILL put you into a psychiatric ward." Was harsh, but it worked!
    I can understand that. mental health carries some bad and scary connotations. For my dad's generation alot of what we think of as issues now were laziness or stupidity etc. I think its frightening to consider their mental capacity is slipping in any way. they fear losing themselves. the body seems exterior to self in a way. But the mind IS self. 
   Take good care of yourself, and your dad. And a Merry Christmas to you all.
