[deleted]
The system is failing him, you're right -- there are very few systems in the US that are working well now.  You're doing the right thing by having her call APS every time.  Does he have any family?  Anywhere?  Do they know what's going on?
Honestly, this is a tricky situation and one that from all of my discussions get you nowhere. My son bought a condo and soon learned his older neighbor (late-50s) is schizophrenic. Her husband was her caregiver and he passed away. She has no other family, so no one checks in on her. He has spent countless hours on the phone with adult protective services, police, EMTs, etc. and the answer is always the same. Unless she harms someone, nothing can be done. He's gone to his association begging for help, but they say it's against ADA rules to try to force her to move and no doctor will deem her unable to live alone.

This neighbor is prone to smashing dishes, screaming at all hours, and this summer threw all of her possessions out of the front door or upstairs window. There was broken glass from lamps, vases, etc. everywhere. Police again couldn't do a thing as she'd harmed no one. They told my son they feel just as helpless as he does. A few weeks ago, my son noticed her doors and windows were all wide open. After two days like that the temperature plummeted to the 20s, so he called police again. He hadn't seen or heard her in two days, so he was concerned. It was an 8 hour wait for police to get the warrant to enter her house, and she was apparently well enough to be left alone again. Once again, he asked and police said all they could do was file another report to send to adult protective services but that little would change things until she attacks and injures someone else.

It baffles me that this is how the U.S. is happy to deal with mental illness and cognitive issues. In the end, until he harms himself or someone else, my bet is that your friend is stuck in that situation until she moves or something happens to him. It's horribly sad.
Have you contacted condo management?
Keeping calling the cops and APS every time it happens. You need to make it their problem so that hey will deal with it. You need to emphasize the danger that the person is in every time. Cold, disorientated, unable to ask for help, can't find own room despite being in the building.

Can the building call the person's family? Is there an emergency contact list or vacation access list somewhere that might have the names of family members? Getting them to deal with the situation would be quickest.
Please call APS and make a report. This is the best thing you can do for them as this point, as they do not have family. APS can come in and evaluate the situation, then make their recommendations. 

Report it as gravely disabled or self neglect, because it's clear he is unable to care for himself, as well as harm to self or others. Please do it now.

Don't forget to write the report as objectively as you can, just the facts. Try not to put your feelings into it. This is particularly important. When you are on the phone with them, that is where you express that it is urgent. 

Best of luck! I hope everything is okay!
That man is definitely falling through the gaps. Your friend should keep a spreadsheet (or a notebook, if that's more her jam) of every time she had to call APS and/or the cops did or said: Date, time, issue, response. The only other thing I can think of is calling up the Alzheimer's association, a similar group, or the town's senior programming office (if there *is* one). Even if they don't have resources to help, they might know someone who does.  
Good luck!
Thank you for the response. I am not sure if she is using this language on the reports so I will definitely forward the info to her!
That is reassuring that contacting APS is the right thing to do. I don’t know if it is because of the pandemic that nothing is being done to support him, but regardless it feels like his is in an equal amount of danger related to covid and to living alone. 
He does not have any other family from my understanding. And I guess if he did they are totally removed from the situation or uninvolved for whatever reason. I asked if he even had a home health nurse and she said that she hasn’t seen anyone, but she is also immunocompromised so she only leaves to do her laundry, so she isn’t sure.
I am so sorry that he is dealing with this situation (in a slightly different form) too. It is very frustrating for those who need help. He sounds like he is very caring and is just running into countless dead ends. I just have so much sympathy for the individuals on both sides of this equation. It’s so unfair that there is not enough out there to support people that need help.
Yes so her mom is on the management board and they have been discussing the situation at length and it seems like no one knows what to do.
So update-oddly enough he lit his house on fire again. APS has told her to continue calling the police. Should she attempt to speak to another APS agent or call the police as directed?
It’s essentially like leaving a toddler home alone to fend for themselves. It’s crazy that APS is not doing anything. I’m sorry your friend is dealing with this. (And it’s very nice of your friend to try to help. Not everyone would do that.)
Make a suggestion then. Groups typically wants problems to go away without risk to the group. So a suggestion that factors that in may be welcome
If they are suggesting PD, as something is actively happening right now and he is in imminent danger, I would follow their advice. I misspoke, I didn’t realize how bad the situation was, and I apologize. In California, APS won’t work if there is a police case open. I don’t know what state you are in. PD will work with APS for aftercare services after the crisis is over - like finding a social worker or caregiver, etc. if they need it.

Do mention though to APS that your concern is that the police did not do much the other times these things have occurred several times already.  They need more support, but especially if this time around PD didn’t resolve much. It’s important to document these things as it’s happening.
