Oh dang, that's awful, so sorry!  This dementia sure sucks!!   Omgosh and to family -  it's better if it's strangers - who cares!  I keep lot of things confidential from my mum, she's also started blabbing... I feel for you!

 It's very different from blabbing confidential / private info -- often my mum will do something out in public that's a bit off, I'll try intervene & distract her, thus ending the embarrassing / slightly inappropriate behaviour.  Sometimes I need a few attempts, or I'll even have to say quietly aside "mum, it's a little rude/odd to blabla"  and often she'll say loudly "WHAT, do you mean in the park here I shouldn't blablabla.." or "BUT I'm JUST blablabla.."  DUH.. me just cringing even more... \* sigh \* ... I take deep breaths, crunch it all up in a virtual crushed newspaper, and PING it into a basketball hoop, or a cricket stump.  

For me, been to plenty music festivals where folk doing weird things on alcohol or lsd or whatever, I think - ok mum, whatever - as long as she doesn't start stripping naked or pooping in public, whatever.... But I keep lot of stuff confidential from her.  

Isn't it crap that the things we'd RATHER they conveniently forget, they don't - and things they ought to remember - they don't.  Poor things, Blabbermouths!!   smh...
[deleted]
My old man would be racist in public while we walked around town. He was virtually blind and when he heard a foreign language he'd make a mockery of it. He'd also take the piss out of people in public when he could overhear a conversation - he'd just say it to me but audible for others to hear. I used to get so annoyed by it all, and now i chuckle about it all and it brings a smile to my face. 

We lost him to covid at the end of march this year. His sense of humour remained until his final days. May he rest in peace. I wish he was around to take the piss out of people now, i do miss him!
It’s gonna sound cold but spend the 6-7 months fighting with medicade to get them in a home. It’s sad. Ik my dad is sad. But I couldn’t be sad anymore. If that makes sense.
It’s tough when the filters are gone. My mom isn’t the angry type of dementia (at least not yet) but at our last large public event a couple of years ago, a very nice large dinner and holiday presentation, the  first presenter was at the podium and loud as all get out she says, “Oh great, I always get seated behind someone with a big head that I can’t see around.” I wanted to crawl under the table!
Remember, a person with dementia does not always have the ability for empathy. Just like a child, their natural ability to filter their thoughts, words and actions are inhibited. Never take it personally learn to shake if off. Its bot your fault and it isn't his. Its the effects of a very insidious disease.
Furious at YOU??? Omg! Why would they believe your family member with dementia over you?? Send a pic of the dinner and gifts and tell those family members they are clueless and to take a hike!
[deleted]
You don’t have to listen to yelling and reprimands on the phone by people who clearly do not understand dementia, even if they are family. Dealing w/this before, I’ve successfully used the broken record technique. It’s not rude to let people know dementia causes people to see their own realities, even if you have to speak over them to do it. As soon as accusations start, announce: “____ tells stories that aren’t true because of worsening dementia. That’s the disease talking. Thanks for your concern, bye now.” Hang up, even if they’re still yelling. You can’t fix their perception, but you don’t have to take the yelling. Do that every single time. They’ll either start believing your explanations of how things are really going, or they’ll stop calling so often. If you want, you could send them a list of dementia symptoms, but if they were interested, they would ask how your  family member w/dementia is doing and believe your answers.
