I’d get another Neurology consult. Just because an MRI of the brain doesn’t show anything doesn’t mean there isn’t an answer. Keep asking them your questions. Here’s another one: Could it be autoimmune related? Keep searching, with doctors who won’t quit looking.
[deleted]
Is the dementia a medical diagnosis or did you diagnose it yourself?
Fibromyalgia?
Have you been having delusional thoughts or hallucinations? What you're describing is exactly what happened to my dad before it got real bad, his docs won't say anything besides psychosis, anxiety, depression.
When I had Mono (Epstein Barr Virus) and Lyme Disease I had terrible brain fog that made me feel like I was losing my mind.
Please see a rheumatologist or a neurologist. Get second opinions. Print these descriptions out if you can’t remember things to tell at the time. Write things down. 

Remember - you are the meaning you have created in your life not a diagnosis. Good luck.
Are you seeing a rheumatologist as well as the neurologist?
Your story sounds a little like mine. Have you had your thyroid and antibody levels checked? Much of what you said sounds similar to what I was experiencing when I was diagnosed with Hashimoto's disease - an autoimmune disease where your body attacks your thyroid. You can feel fatigue, brain fog, muscle weakness, and often have some emotional/mental impacts from it. No one knows what causes it but it can be triggered by stress, pregnancy, etc according to my doc. It's a pretty simple blood test you can ask your doctor for.
It’s definitely an autoimmune issue at this point. It feels like my brain is attacking itself
I can see it..I have a lot of progressive sound and light sensitivity. Just trying to figure out the causative agent for why it’s happening and why it’s getting progressively worse.
Dementia like symptoms, neurologists don’t want to clinically say it’s dementia because generally it happens at a much later age.
More of a lack of a thought, like I’m slowly going into a coma
Lyme disease is actually one of the diagnoses I am considering,.did you feel light headed and felt like everything was 1000x times harder to do?
Have you explored the possibility that they won't say dementia because it isn't?
"brain fog", is what my dad said. He couldn't think of what he had to do in a day, etc. I'd get a second opinion. 

Have you had covid?
Yes, I could barely get out of bed to go to the bathroom let alone shower.  I used to get mats in the back of my head from laying down so much so yes it makes things 1000 x's harder to do.  The tricky thing with Lyme Disease is that you need to be tested at the right time from the bite, not too soon and not after more than 4 to 6 weeks (?) I can't remember the time frame but something like that.  I have read that the labs are correct then only 65% of the time. I didn't know this when I first became sick and got tested right away only for it to come back negative.  When I didn't recover two months later I went to a Lyme Literate Doctor who uses a more specialized test for Lyme Disease that can pick up older infections.  There are other diseases transmitted as well as Babesia and Bartonella.  Best of luck to you.
Absolutely, it's just that I can't find any other neurodegenerative disorder that can describe it besides dementia. It has the same aggressive decline and neurological dysfunction, that's why I posted here.
Holy shit. These are literally my symptoms. You might've saved my life. I'll book an appointment with one next week.
Best of luck to you.  I wanted to mention that after those diagnoses I came down with Chronic Fatigue Syndrome which also has a whole set of symptoms.  It's hard to get a diagnosis so keep trying.  You're not nuts your symptoms are real.
