Start preparing. Make sure you don't have any major bills and debt. Tell friends and family to keep an on you, if you really start showing signs. Make you have someone that can be a power of attorney and healthcare proxy.  

While you're still young and have you full mental facilities. Eat right and exercise. Take your vitamins and supplements, especially those that help brain 🧠 functions. Do memory exercises (they have them on apps for your phone and tablet). 

On my father's side of the family. My grandfather had Alzheimer's. My uncles had Alzheimer's. My father had dementia and I have an aunt with dementia. So my siblings, cousins, and I are worried we might inherit this. So a lot of us, are preparing now by making sure our affairs are in order and we are taking care of our health. I'm in my early 40's, my father, uncles, and aunt didn't get it till their 70's. I'm hoping there is a major breakthrough in dementia and Alzheimer's before I reach that age.
My father has dementia and this last year has been painful, to say the least.  And I am so fearful I will go that path.  This year, I started a journal with pages dedicated to family and close friends.  I've written down some of the special memories from over the years.  I also wrote a list of some of my favorite memories with each person and mailed it to them.  One, to let them know how much they mean to me but also to tell them to remind me of the events, should I no longer remember.
Oh that’s tough. My late wife had FTD. So did her mother and her mother’s mother. 
Her daughters from a previous marriage decided not to get tested and didn’t want her brain tested after death. 
It got earlier in each generation. A professor told me that this is a thing! 
My wife was diagnosed at age 59. They said the average lifespan is 5 to 7 years after diagnosis. It was 6. 
There are so many ways to look at this if you knew it was coming your way. She was oblivious to it. It was terribly hard for us. 
She would not have wanted a final 5 to 7 years like that. The last few years are awful. 
She used to tell her daughters - referring to her mother - don’t ever let me get like  that. But of course they could do nothing. One daughter told me how bad she felt that she “let” her mother get like that. 
Apart from the obvious, like getting your affairs in order, you could choose a rest home you’d like. You could make early clothing choices as they need to be practical and often look a bit degrading. Medication choices. Resuscitation orders. Who makes your legal and health decisions. 
But most of all get your support team educated in the stages and how to care for a PWD without it taking away your own life. 
People forget that the PWD isn’t the same person they were and unnecessarily take it all too personally when the PWD is oblivious.

Another thought (edit) - I got a voice recording of my wife while she could still talk. That was very valuable.
I would pre plan everything to make it as easy on my family as I possibly can. Taking care of my health would be a huge priority as would enjoying the now instead of waiting for the future. I would end things once I deteriorated to a certain point. There is no way I want to go through the pain of dementia or put my family through it. 

Yes, I understand good days are still possible and you can live happily with your new normal. I’m not putting my child or my husband through it.
I would want to know. I would have bought LTC insurance before my tests.  And I’d want to know because I would not have biological kids if I knew in time and it had a 50% chance. 

I’d retire early, like 40 if at all possible. Live life modestly and then enjoy traveling and seeing the world, even if it was in a tent or camper.

Also, there are ways to make it less likely or hold off through diet and exercise and avoiding stress. I just watched a whole video series on it and some was bunk but some makes sense.

Otherwise, maybe in my 40’s I’d move to a country that legalized euthanasia make a clear document with my wishes. I don’t want to live like that or put my family through it once life isn’t valuable.
If I were in your mother's shoes? I would quickly get  my affairs in order and I would take my life.

Regarding knowing?  I personally would want to know...  You are young,  live your life to the fullest, knowing will help you make better plans..  Good luck! and please work with a counselor to deal with the answer you may get.
My mother has frontal lobe dementia. I asked my brother this last night. I’d get my affairs in order and consider assisted suicide when I’ve begun to really lose my faculties and independence. It’s too much suffering to bear for myself and my loved ones. I can’t imagine the world my mom is living in right now and I just don’t want to go through that. My brother feels the same way. I’d definitely want to know my chances of catching it/whether or not I have it.
My mom passed away from FTD a few months ago and her mom had some one of dementia,but none of her siblings show any sign fo dementia, so it’s hard to say if there’s any genetic link. Though, I’m one to always fear the worst.

I’m in early 30s now and never hesitate to tell my my feelings on my end  of life care- “do not prolong my death!” We’re pretty recently married, and suppose I should get things written up to avoid him having to make any hard decisions. I want it to be straightforward- don’t let me suffer, donate my body- let me be a cadaver, or donate my brain  if that’s appropriate.

I don’t think I’ll want biological kids after watching my mom die of FTD... what if I pass this on? Or what if I become sick before they are adults? My family was about as “fortunate” as you can with FTD- the kids were grown and out of the house, mom didnt work and wasn’t bringing home needed money, dad was in a work and financial situation that she was able to get the care she needed. 

Long term care insurance saved my family! Something to help with the cost of long term care. Unfortunately healthcare in the US is just so fucked. My family luckily had special insurance to help with the cost when my mom moved into a facility. 

If you start to decline, get a diagnosis ASAP so you can apply for social security, disability, Medicare etc.

And finally, and most darkly, I recruited some people I trust to help me “end things” should I be diagnosed with a terminal brain disease. That’s a pretty personal decision, but it’s what I want and I don’t think my husband bring himself to help me in that way. I hope it doesn’t come to that.!

I am sorry to hear about your family.  
I wouldn't give up hope as you don't know what medical advances there will be by the time you reach an age where it might be a problem.  I can understand your concern as I'm 45 and I'm starting to exhibit symptoms of cognitive decline, although I haven't received a diagnosis of what is the cause, it's quite scary to think I could have something like dementia and the immediate thought is to euthanise before it gets too bad.  
Use the time you have to find out what you can do to try to prevent it or prolong the time you have before you deteriorate.  
I assume there are trials out there for treatments or therapies so perhaps you could put your name down for something like that. Given your family history you would be a perfect candidate.  
I wish you good luck and I pray they find a cure of treatment before you come of age.
I think about this all the time. Truthfully if I ever noticed signs of FTD in myself and had it medically confirmed I’d just off myself (not without making extensive plans for my loved ones first.) I believe its a persons right to have death with dignity. Thankfully my mom has FTD but does not have any of the know genes for it, so I’m hopeful.

Still, I’m so sorry about the odds you are facing. I hope all goes well for you 💗
On top of the health stuff, perhaps start a vlog playing music you know/favorite items as a sound background talking about important things.

Background track: Dave Matthews Band
Me: “Heya today is... and I wanna talk about the day you and *wifes name* went to the Dave Mathews concert”
Get involved in studies so that you can help others, know exactly when it starts, and potentially try any new treatments.
[deleted]
Honestly, I hope that medically induced euthanasia is legal by then.

I would not want to put ANYONE through what my father is doing to us, let alone the confusion he’s always living in.
My husband was diagnosed with FTD this year, although not quite since he’s not yet at the dementia level. My advice is to live a great life full of friendship, love, and experiences. Live a healthy life (read the book How Not To Die by Michael Gregor, MD) since nutrition and exercise can keep you in peak form. Live a debt-free life so you can build wealth. This will give you the ability to get the care you may someday need and also keep your stress level down and help you stay mentally healthy. Being debt-free will also free up some opportunities for you since you won’t have to stay in a job or city or relationship because of money concerns. You will be able to control your destiny since money concerns won’t tie you down.
This is what I fear the most.

If I manage to have a family and finances then ok...if not, I think of suicide
I'm sorry to hear about your family. I'm hoping for a breakthrough too although I don't have much faith in it happening over the next couple decades. Sorry if I'm being too straightforward or come across as insensitive but would you ever consider euthanasia if you start experiencing some symptoms or would you rather let it be and find some other solution?
That's a great idea, I was thinking of starting a book with memories and photos as well. I really regret not taking more of them when my mum and I would spend time together. Now I try to take as many as I can with or of my friends and family. I plan to write letters to them before I end things though so in a couple of decades.
What a lovely thing to do. I am sure it will mean the world to them.
I'm very sorry about your wife and I wish you all the best. Hope you're holding up.  
The voice recording is a lovely idea, I'm not sure if I have any videos of my mum where she speaks but I'll try find something. I think I'll also create a photo book.
Same, I was considering euthanasia in a country where it's legal.
I agree with you.  That would be my choice also.
I completely agree with you, the results will definitely be the deciding factor whether I'd want to have kids in the future. I'm kind of daunted by the fact that finding someone who would want to stay with me knowing what they're getting themselves into is going to be pretty hard too.I have the same plans as you regarding ending things and traveling a lot beforehand. Not sure whether I'd move or just go on a one way trip to Belgium lol  
edit: misspelled a word
Yes, you said basically everything I meant to say too.
My mother has declined too much to understand anything, she would be incapable of taking her own life. It's really hard to say what the world looks like from her perspective but I doubt she's aware of anything happening to her. It appears she can't even be compared to a child anymore, it's complete inability to speculate, analyse any situation or dialogue, her abilities, the past, the future, feel adequate emotions. I think she was even too far in it when we got her brain scanned because I remember she saw the diagnosis but seemed oblivious to it even though to a stranger she would appear completely fine. If you mean you'd do it at an earlier stage, yes, me too, perhaps I'd go to Belgium and get euthanised. I think she was kind of in denial too because she never did any tests herself, we had to force her to start going to doctors when we saw she's struggling to form sentences. Her mother got diagnosed much, much too late and not much was done about it, I guess due to my grandfather's obliviousness and lack of knowledge in that field. Also the times were different then where I'm from, I guess the general knowledge about these kinds of diseases was minimal and people usually didn't do anything about them, they were all Alzheimers, no one bothered to dig deeper and get the actual diagnosis.   
And thank you + yes, I also think it's very important, I am working with a counsellor already, hope my brother is going to soon.
Yes, I agree with you 100%. I'm glad people on here share my views, I doubt my friends would understand at the moment if I told them. Even my mum's sister doesn't get it for some reason, she prefers to not know. Ignorance is bliss I guess. Or maybe if she was going to develop it too she would be showing sings already, I don't know what her thought process is.
Thank you for the kind words, I wish you all the best too. I cannot imagine exactly what you're feeling although potentially I'll be in the same situation in the future. I would also consider euthanasia. Thank you for the advice, it's a good idea with the trials, although I'm not too hopeful about medical advances in this field in the next couple decades.
It’s a really good idea to participate in a study like that, would be very interesting. I’m from Europe though so will maybe look for sth like that somewhere here or have a think and go to the US, depends what a study like that looks like.
It’s already legal in Belgium. Maybe other countries too, I haven’t looked at Netherlands.
I would prefer euthanasia when I'm completely out of it and no conscious thought and speech, rambling nonsense.  However, if I have a wife and kids, then its up to them.  Despite, my father talking incoherently and not making any sense whatsoever, I like having him around. When I have off days from work and nothing to do. I come to my dad and stepmother's house and spend a day or two. Same with my aunts and uncles, I spend some time with them too, though they no longer remember who I am.  

I try to have faith that something if being developed for dementia. Its may not be a cure, just yet. If it's something that keeps your mental facilities working much longer, I will take that.
We can only hope that medical science can arrive at some solutions or mitigations.  Best of luck on your journey and your memory book.  Wishing you peace.
Euthanasia is definitely a high possibility for me. It will depend on what my family needs for closure. When I get to that point it no longer becomes about me, but how best to protect my loved ones. 

For now it’s the ticking time bomb and not letting the fear control my now. It’s a delicate balance of being realistic without turning pessimistic
"The legal push for more end-of-life liberty has advanced to the point that it is now bumping up against the next frontier in the law — the “dementia directive.”

Dementia patients cannot participate in medical aid-in-dying programs, which require that patients be both terminally ill and mentally sound. By the time a dementia patient is terminally ill, they no longer have decision-making ability, Pope said.

In response to the rule, sound-minded people who cannot imagine living as dementia patients have begun signing documents stating that if or when they develop advanced dementia, they want caretakers not to hand-feed them food and water, and to permit them to die.

The advocate group End of Life Choices New York, for instance, offers on its website a dementia directive template that has been downloaded hundreds of times, said Judith Schwarz, the group’s clinical director.

Schwarz explained: “In our directive, it says when you reach the terminal stage, or an advanced stage of dementia, when you can no longer make informed decisions for yourself and … when you reach that point of not being able to feed yourself, you want all oral intake withheld in addition to all other life-prolonging measures, of course, like CPR and dialysis. And you want aggressive comfort care” to ease pain and other symptoms.

In essence, sound-minded people in the present are signing documents directing the deaths of their future selves, who may no longer have the capacity to make that choice."

[https://www.bostonglobe.com/2020/12/26/metro/hospital-staff-revived-mans-stopped-heart-he-sued/](https://www.bostonglobe.com/2020/12/26/metro/hospital-staff-revived-mans-stopped-heart-he-sued/)
I would also choose euthanasia and someone I trust to carry out my written and explicit wishes (it would not be my spouse, he could not).  But everyone is different!
I hope you allow someone to love you. Don’t cheat yourself of that.
You know...I think ignorance is bliss can work in some ways but with this disease...I couldn’t imagine wanting that. I know it’s scary and devastating to know what will happen but without effective treatments/cures...it’s a nightmare for everyone involved. Fear is the only reason I can think of not wanting to know. I’d want to be in control of my destiny because right now, I feel so out of control. I have to see my mother deteriorate and I can’t do anything to stop it. It’s torture by the brain. One of the worst things I’ve ever gone through in my life. Only Jesus has this much patience. Wishing you and your family strength!
Thank you.  I am not against euthanasia as I personally don't wish to decline too far gone and I would do it if I felt like I was past the point of return but that's jumping the gun for me to be talking about it now and if my wife read this I wouldn't need Jack Kevorkian because she would kill me. 
I know I'm being extremely optimistic about medical advances but what's life without hope.  I truly wish you all the best. Take care.
Exactly, that's what I'm struggling with too, it's incredibly hard to not become  pessimistic and just hopeless. It also looks like medicine is still lacking so much research on this the thought of a breakthrough doesn't give me hope anymore.  
I guess it's about living life to the fullest right now and I'll start worrying once I'm 45 or something.
Thank you for your reply. It’s legal in Belgium though.

‘At a time where they’re still able to manifest their wishes, they would be able to draw up a declaration in advance which would not be restricted in time and in which they could specify the moment when they wish their life to be ended.’

 Even euthanasia among infants, children and people with autism has been legalised there. https://www.ieb-eib.org/ancien-site/pdf/20121208-dossier-euthanasia-in-belgium-10-years.pdf
