As the disease progresses she unfortunately will not remember you regardless of how you present; especially since you're far enough along in your medical transition that you look & sound so different. It's likely she will never look at you now and see the previous "version" of you and be confused because of it. As the previous commenter stated, it's possible once she moves in you may realize she's not the person you remember either. 

Being the best caregiver you can for her also entails you taking good care of yourself. If presenting or pretending to be female again is going to cause you grief or make you dysphoric, it WILL eventually cause you to resent her. Caring for her will be difficult enough, don't make it harder on yourself.

As a fellow trans guy, I see you. It's a tough situation.
Don't stress it. Just do you. If you live with her, you may learn she is a completely different person with this disease. I had to separate my memories of my grandma before her illness from the grandma I take care of now. Things she would have never said in her right state of mind. Dementia makes people unreasonable, no matter how reasonable you try to be for them. The impact on YOU is likely greater than the impact on THEM.
You be yourself. If you have to find down the road and be just a caregiver and not family to her, so be it.
Be loving to yourself first and foremost. Then you can be loving to your grandma. She’ll sense the love first, I imagine. And she may not remember you as a female. I agree with the other posts about you being true to yourself as this disease affects both of you. My mom has started down the dementia road herself. She’s not the woman she used to be. So focus on the positives. Be true to yourself. Sending you love and good vibes from Canada.
You seem like a really kind person to even be considering this. That said, it is clear that presenting as female would be harmful to you. Don’t do it. Yes, she will be confused. This will happen regardless. My mom thinks her husband of 50 years is a new friend most of the time. Don’t worry about making up a story for her, she will likely fill in the blanks however makes the most sense to her no matter what you say.

I could be totally off base here, but I get the impression you are feeling guilty that something about you might make things more confusing for her. You have nothing to feel guilty for at all. She is going to be confused and while this is theoretically a little more confusing than typical, it really shouldn’t change much. At some point, she will likely expect you to be a much younger version of yourself. Even if you weren’t trans, you couldn’t pass for a female child anymore and that would be just as confusing for her.
Also my grandma is constantly mistaking her grandson(my boyfriend) for his abusive father and it is a little upsetting at times, but we remind her and sometimes it makes her angry, and other times she realizes its just her grandson. Be ready for her to possibly be accepting and then change her opinion \*strongly\* a few minutes later.
