Absolutely you lie to her. Think of it as a white lie? Don't feel bad about it, you're protecting her mental state.
They call them “loving lies.” 

A lot of “they’re out and will be back in a little bit”, etc. Just remember, you’re not lying TO her, you’re lying FOR her, to help her. ❤️
The truth without a valid reason is just cruelty when it comes to alzheimer.
I get that heartbreak. In my mom's case, I lied to her and a few seconds later, she said "No, wait. My mom died. How dare you lie to me." I've decided not to answer at all and just pretend I didn't hear it or I'll say "I don't know."
My mother and I made cookies every week to send to my brother in a care package when he was in Iraq in 2003. Unfortunately he was KIA.  

One day she was extremely agitated because we hadn't made him cookies to ship off yet.  This was earlier this year.  So.... we made cookies.  We boxed them up.  

And I gave them to a neighbor.  

I hated lying to my mom.  I hated the thought of her losing her son to war again even more.  Towards the end,  dad was just late coming home from work, we made a lot of cookies,  and her daughter (me) just ran a couple errands and will be back shortly.  

It's so hard,  but like others have said,  they are loving lies.  You are sparing your loved one emotional pain.
I actually posted a while back about having to remove my brothers memorial from my moms living room because she was getting upset repeatedly. He took his own life a few years ago after a really long struggle with ptsd and drug addiction after coming home from overseas. She has forgotten all his troubles too which is the positive part of the whole thing i suppose. We tell her he is still overseas or that he is at work or something when she asks after him now. I’m really sorry you are having to deal with this.
So sorry, it's sad. I feel for you!   This awful terrible 2020, I hope & wish you get some relief, on all fronts.   Yep, time for "compassionate lies".  I guess it's similar to not telling little kids Santa doesn't exist. 

 My mum also, in the last 6 months, a few times has asked me "but where's grandma Rose?" (who brought her up).  I'm still at this point able to tell her, "but mum grandma Rose died 35 years ago" without her having too much trauma, it's just the sadness when she then realises how much her alzhms is progressing... But since a while already, I tell her all sorts of compassionate lies, about many things (mostly minor things) - makes life easier for us both. 

Sometimes I'm reminded of that poem,  "is ALL that we see or seem, but a dream within a dream?".  I figure, if it makes them feel bad, then absolutely better to lie - much more compassionate for them to have less trauma.  It's a great gift you can give yr mom, and yourself.    \* hugs \* 

You are not wrong, who deem

That my days have been a dream;

Yet if hope has flown away

In a night, or in a day,

In a vision, or in none,

Is it therefore the less *gone*?  

*All* that we see or seem

Is but a dream within a dream.
I saw a YouTube guide video a while ago talking about this, I'll see if I can find it. 

They said something I really liked in the same vein as loving lies: "You're not lying to your family member, you're lying to the disease", but it's up to you to pick the few which will be acceptable to you.

If it were me I would rather be saved the pain of being told certain big things like you're talking about and reliving it every time it comes up. Ask yourself what you would rather deal with if you were in your mum's position.
Compulsive lying doesn't feel right to me, it's not who I am. 

And becoming someone's torturer, turning their life into an endless loop of reliving the trauma of losing their spouse and their mother over and over again - that's also not who I am.

And so I resort to truths that obscure the truth. "Dad's not here right now. Where is he? I remember him talking about needing to go to the bank." All technically true. If her mom is, for example buried in a cemetery, "She's at the park today." Or if you know she's laid to rest in some other town, "She's in Pasadena right now. I'll be glad when the flu is over, nobody is supposed to be flying right now. Everyone's missing being able to see their family."
At a certain point, it’s not even lying anymore. It’s emotional damage control. Word choice can be helpful for both parties (eg: “died” or “passed away” vs “peacefully resting” or “with the angels” if your family is about that life).
You do lie.  I'm sorry; it feels horrible to lie to your beloved mom, and I felt dreadful the first few times I did it.  But my mom was having to relive the grief of losing her husband over and over again; when I said "Oh, I think he's gone for a drive", she didn't have to grieve.  (As time went on, she wouldn't have believed me about his being dead anyway.)
I agree with everyone who says that those are loving lies. I'm a secondary caregiver (3 days per week) to my grandmother. She is so bad she forgets her questions by the time I answer them. 

I usually still tell her the truth (sometimes I don't). I feel like she is an adult and has a right to feel the emotions that come with the truth.
Yes, give her the "loving lies". I know it probably goes against all your own loving impulses to do that (it certainly does for me with my sweet wife) but console yourself with the sad fact that she won't even remember that you told her that untruth. I know that's cold comfort but upsetting her does neither of you any good and you want to spend as much happy time as you can in this situation (the Long Goodbye...)
I second this: “You’re not lying to your person, you’re lying to the disease.”

As their caregiver we want to do everything we can to protect them from this vile disease - often those are easy pragmatic things like preventing a fall down the stairs, or setting a fire on the cooktop. It also includes trying to remedy the psychological toll that comes will the loss of memory, awareness, and identity - which is so much more complicate and obscure. Our healthy brains look at these lies as a betrayal of the truth, but what they really are is a complicated way of redirecting and saying “let’s not worry about that thing we have no control over and upset ourselves unnecessarily”. 

It’s so hard to protect someone from their own self.
I’d be really interested if you could find that video! I’ll look myself but if you have a link I would appreciate jt
I’m beginning to realize that these “loving lies” are the only ETHICAL option for my mom. I am so thankful for everyone’s kind words. I feel lost and alone and so exhausted but having people verify that something I’m doing is the correct path puts me at ease (even if it’s slight)
I was trying to find it earlier with no luck although I'm 90% certain it was on the YouTube channel Dementia Success Path. She makes good guide videos of different common scenarios and runs through how you can handle things. I'm just thinking it might have been in her video about how to deal with repetitive questions. I'll check her channel again tomorrow to see if I can find it. Her channel is quite small but it's really good, she acts out both sides of lots of different scenarios.
It's very, very painful, and I'm sorry you're having to do it.
Thank you I’ll be honest, I’m a “little old school” when it comes to looking up guides online. I still prefer the written walkthroughs people would do on Microsoft Note to the YouTube video guides but I suppose it’s time to evolve with the times
Oh yeah, same here. I do prefer to read as well, her channel is really one of the only video guide type ones I've gotten much out of and enjoyed watching. Her acting is pretty spot on in my experience although I think some people were upset by it. I watch a few others but it's more just blogs of people with parents who have dementia and what they're all getting up to/activities they're doing. 

I'm afraid to say I still couldn't find the snippet I quoted above although [here is her channel](https://youtube.com/channel/UCY9tH8W1kiOReHrLeOmL-4w) if you fancy watching any of them yourself. I really hope this is the channel and I'm not totally mixed up.
