As far as explaining the situation to her, there is no point. She won’t understand or accept your reasons, because of the disease. I’ve always found giving them an explanation or reason they will accept, even though it is a lie, works best. For example, when I moved my father into a care home, I called it a hotel for his work conference. That was the explanation that made sense to him, as to why he would be in that hotel-style living situation. Finding the right medication is so important to helping with the anger. Remember, their minds are deteriorating; they are losing who they are as a person. As for the guilt, that is just something you eventually feel less badly about, especially when you find a facility that does a good job caring for them and it gives you the break to recharge. No one can do a fantastic job taking care of someone else if they are at the end of their rope and are drained. I remember my dad’s psychiatrist has said that dementia is often much harder on the families.
Thank you, you’re right in every way!! 
No he can’t look after her anymore, i just felt he needed to come home, we would carry on the care to see how things were and then decide. Doesn’t seem right doing it to her but also to him too, without him having a say in it! 

Good point that something worst could happen if we unite them! We already feel bad we allowed it to get so bad in the first place! My husband and I started visiting them every night just before COVID hit! We set up doc appointments, memory clinic help but unknown to us my father-in-law refused any help, I only learnt that since talking to their doctor!
The help we’ve received so far from Alzheimer’s UK has been so caring and helpful and I will call them Tuesday, I’m hoping I can see them in my own home so we can talk about what to do next properly!

It’s been difficult as I’ve been the driving force behind all of this, and must make sure I don’t influence the decision to put her in a care home, I need my husband and step-daughter to decide! They’re really suffering too!
I can understand your struggles. Not safe for your dad anymore it seams. I've heard other people suggest that the person needed to go to the hospital for their yearly check up as an excuse. What about since dad's in the hospital ....like say he will need rehab and they will let her stay at the facility with him....hence the memory care you have picked out for her. I have no idea what I'll tell my mom when the time comes hoping she is mentally out of it by then.
I feel so much for your father in law - he is losing, if not lost, his will to live. Please just put her in care if you can to atleast save him so they both don’t suffer.

Can you imagine how much less he is capable of looking after her now? He’s weakened mentally and physically and truly it’s him in respite now.

Perhaps speak to a Dementia organisation that can give you advice and reassurance on the best way forward.

Your FIL needs you to act when he has possibly not done anything due possibility to his own guilt. She is so unwell and will get worse. Aggressive dementia patients are frighteningly strong and she’s already harmed him. 

She now needs professional care. If you don’t act your guilt could be so much worse. Perhaps think of it as actually avoiding seriously crippling guilt if you don’t act  now
My mother's family (we live in a different country from them) had to get the doctor on side and have the health authorities place my grandfather in care because they couldn't bear to do it and knew he wouldn't go voluntarily. I am thinking that soon that will be my path too - my mother is increasingly unable to care for herself but there is no way in hell that she will go without a fight
Thank you!!! We live right next to an amazing facility! They decorate the windows and gardens with each holiday, they have a cinema and a hairdresser! I would be so happy if she was there!
Coming up with an explanation might be tricky but it’s definitely worth coming up with one to decrease her suspicion!
I’ve learnt so much the past 6 wks and one was the medication, currently it doesn’t seem to be doing anything to help! Hoping to get more help since she was assessed by a psychiatrist last week!
You are doing loads of things to move this situation to another level so glad that Alzheimer’s UK have been so great to liaise with too. 

You’re a great daughter in law it’s not easy knowing how to be supportive of your husbands family such a balancing act. But perhaps he will need your input more than you realise as you can be more objective than he or his as his daughter. 

You do have a few roles you’re playing here, being the daughter in law, being the step mother and also being the wife. They all require something different from you but your love and support with be the common thread

You will get there for sure 🙏🏼
He sadly died today :-(
I’m sorry to hear about your mum too!

I have the same concerns! I guess I was waiting to get to the point where she stopped recognising us or wandering! I felt until then we were still able to keep her at home!

I would love someone to do it for us but we’ll have to do it together and then support each other!

Good luck your end too xxx
Finding the right medication is so helpful, but it definitely takes a little time to find the balance that works. The psychiatrist put my dad on anti-psychotics, which I was worried about at first, but it really helped with his anxiety and he is very content and easy going on it. Good luck!
Thank you needed to hear that! It’s the one good thing that’s come out of this my step-daughter and I have become really close and the 3 of us together make an amazing team!!

We actually have the next 2 days and nights free! We had to literally beg for a break from my husband’s brother and wife! They’ve been doing at the most 5 hours on a Saturday or Sunday for the past 6 weeks!!!

They’re all for throwing her into a care home, I’ve just said to them by all means  you can be the one to tell her to make her leave her house of 50 yrs but they said they can’t as they don’t have power of attorney (very sore point for them), but it shouldn’t stop them caring!

They’re so heartless but aren’t we too, when it gets too tough we throw her in a home! I know it’s not like that but it’s what I’m struggling with!
My heart goes out to you. I'm so sorry. Please reach out fir anything.
I am so sorry. My condolences. I think it’s past time for your mother-in-law to be cared for by professionals. Find a placement for her now. Trying to provide the level of care that she needs will be impossible for you and will cause too much stress and disruption for you, your husband, and his daughter. Sending hugs and strength your way as you search for a good placement for her.
I hope you know just how NOT ALONE you are in this dilemma! I was nearly crushed by the weight of it all, when I realized that despite my husband & I moving my Mom to the same town as us, setting her up in a fantastic building geared to seniors, handling ALL her finances, doing the shopping, having Meals On Wheels in, doing the laundry & cleaning, arranging all the appointments, visiting constantly, that she was declining faster than we were able to pick up slack. 

My sibling lives an hour or so away, with a young family & so the bulk of the Stuff To Be Done fell on my family. The entire rest of our extended family lives abroad. I could SEE the train barreling down the track & kept raising the alarm, but, as is often the case with dementia related conditions, my Mom has little to no insight & other family wasn't involved in the day to day & thus either couldn't, or wouldn't, see how dire the situation was becoming,

We had to make the near impossible decision to force the issue (after spending a year trying to get her diagnosed by a neurologist) after she suddenly forgot how to bathe or dress & I found out that she had a massive wound on her leg that she had hidden (it turned out to be skin cancer, which necessitated surgery). Broken, I brought my confused Mom to the emergency room on her 70th birthday, & instead of getting her ready to go to a party in her honour, she was diagnosed & remained hospitalized for over 2 months.

 We transitioned her into a Memory Care Unit (after MUCH vetting) just 2.5 weeks before Covid hit in earnest. At the time, it was mind-blowingly devastating, but honestly? The timing was a gift because she could NOT have coped safely at home during this Pandemic (even with us doing everything we had been & more), she didn't have room for round the clock carers & as she has lost her ability to perceive her surroundings safely, my home was not suitable for any long term accommodations (one of my first clues that something was up was watching my Mom nearly throw herself down a set of stairs in my home, like she had forgotten what she was meant to do. This was at least a year before the other memory issues reared their heads on a regular basis). She needs 24/7 care.  The Pandemic has made ALL of this harder to cope with because we can't visit & participate in her care the way we would have wanted (we are legally her substitute decision makers, & also her Essential Caregivers, which we fought for to make sure that we COULD have regular access to her, observing safety protocols) but I can truthfully say that we have done everything in our power to do the right thing for her. 

At the end of the day, the safety of both your MIL AND your FIL needs to be paramount, as well as your collective family's ability to support their emotional, physical & mental wellbeing, WITHOUT foregoing your own. THAT is the tricky part & one I'm still learning to navigate successfully. What I can tell you, after a year of hospitals & decline, is that the guilt (while still present - she called me on Christmas Day to ask if we WANTED to come see her. We can only visit on Mondays, we had dropped off prezzies to be opened ON Christmas & more for Monday's visit, we arranged phone calls from relatives, cards & flowers to be delivered, Santa was there, she had a lovely dinner planned by the home, we discussed this daily in advance etc etc & still, that call brought me to my knees. Because GAH.), is lessened by knowing that I AM doing the best I can for her. It won't be perfect, I will have setbacks, & I have ZERO control over what others do, but my overarching goal is that Mom feels the immense love that we have for her, as much as is humanly possible.

 Letting go of (perfectly reasonable, might I add) expectations of others is a challenge that is ongoing, but important. People cope in their own ways, & it sucks (oh, so much) but it just doesn't help you to hold onto resentment & bitterness (no matter how well earned it is). The fact that you, your partner & your Stepdaughter ARE a good team is a blessing not to be overlooked (I've become a pro at looking for the silver linings & I HIGHLY recommend being deliberate about your gratitude in the midst of the murkiness that illness brings). My husband is my ROCK, & I fall a bit deeper in love with him every time he sacrifices his time, energy & epic dance moves to make my Mom smile. There IS light in this darkness & the guilt IS lessened when you can acknowledge that showing your MIL Love & Kindness CAN be by finding her the best possible living situation AND supporting her as she receives in-patient care. I understand why people balk at putting a Loved One "in a home" & I'm sure that, for some, it is a way to absolve them of responsibility, but for MANY of us, it is a gift of sacrifice & acknowledgement that our Loved Ones needed more than we were equipped to give them. I had to put my ego on the back burner (my background is Nursing, so there was a lot of internal wrestling around "Well, I KNOW what to do & I could learn the rest") & really look at what my Mom NEEDED (round the clock care, a secure environment as she was wandering, a highly rigid daily structure, one-to-one constant care with all ADL, a social environment with other people, access to the outdoors without fear of wandering, an elevator to change floors, etc) & I know we made the right decision. 

My best advice is to dispassionately write down a list of what both your MIL & FIL need/want & arrange the option that best fulfills those needs for each of them. As hard as it is to accept, their needs may be at apparent odds with one another. Your FIL likely has been trying to navigate his wife's decline on his own (guilt is nasty & pervasive) & a surefire recipe for burnout. He is physically depleted & needs to focus on his own health & even with carers in the home, he may struggle to do so. MIL is confused, aggressive & any change will likely come with challenges. However, safety MUST come first, & you can likely give more of yourselves when you aren't scrambling to figure out how to keep both of them from harm. I wish I had a magic wand to wave to make ALL of this easier for the millions of us who are facing this situation (I'm still waiting on my invite to Hogwarts!), but please remember that you are part of this community & in addition to incredible organizations like your local Alzheimer's Association, this subreddit is always here for you. Wishing you & your family strength & peace in the process. Xo
I’m lost for words!!! Crying with it! The fact u went through that and still looking for silver linings and of course a Hogwarts invitation! You truly are an inspiration! I will keep your message to keep me going!

Sadly my father-in-law died this afternoon. We’re crushed. My mother-in-law sobbed. She’s already forgotten :-( It’s 8.30 in the evening now, she’s just asked when is he coming home? We’re not telling her again tonight, we’ll wait for tomorrow morning! 

Like u my love for my husband has grown and the love I have for my step daughter is immeasurable! Im also so proud of our two teenage boys helping us through this! 

It’s still a long sad road ahead of us but your words really helped!!
Oh, Love, I'm so SO sorry for your family's loss. My heart breaks for you all - this year has just taken so much from us all, collectively. This next bit WILL be terribly difficult & draining but you WILL weather this storm, together. I think the quest for the silver linings was born out of a deep need to find the light in the darkness - & it gets easier as time goes on. I have fallen & failed over & over on this journey, but like my Dad used to say "If, on the road of life, I can help someone else avoid a few of the potholes I fell into, it will have been worth it". I think about that a lot. Please feel free to reach out & DM me if you EVER need or want to talk/vent. Sending ALL of you such BIG, socially distant hugs.xo
My condolences to you.
