Has she forgotten what to do with food? Has she forgotten how to use a knife and fork? Has her body stopped telling her she's hungry? So many different issues here that need to be explored.
Something is going on with her to make her think that there is something wrong with it. Something similar happened to my grandfather. He used to love pasta. Then he started having trouble eating spaghetti, and started refusing to eat it and throwing it away because in his mind there was something wrong with it. Unfortunately, it's a normal part of dementia. 

When you say "aides," are you referring to home health care, or is she in a memory care facility? If she is in a facility, they should be used to this type of thing and should have alternative food options available to her. If she is at home, it will be your responsibility to find alternative solutions. I can tell you from what I have witnessed with my grandfather at the facility he's in, the patients tend to enjoy easy to eat finger foods the most. That and soft foods like mashed potatoes and macaroni and cheese.
Is all textures of food? Can they try a more minced up diet? Sometimes they just need to be able to move it around the mouth and then swallow. Too many steps for the brain to follow to chew, move the food around and swallow. Is she keeping any food in her cheeks? Like a squirrel would...? This is called pocketing and is also a sign that she needs a more minced diet.
[deleted]
I don't think she has forgotten what to do with it, from my understanding she eats some, and throws away some. She can still use utensils properly. Unfortunately due to covid, i only see her maybe once a week, so i haven't been able to see most of it happen. I noticed it for the first time yesterday, and the pieces she would throw away, she put in her mouth first then took it out and threw it out.
She's in a facility, they have nurses there but we also use an agency to provide home health aides
Like weed.
Sounds like she's not enjoying the food, many people develop a very sweet tooth in the mid stage of dementia so food could be tasteless to her now. Also something to consider is she eating alone? Ask her carers to sit at the table with her whilst she eats (if they dont already).
The facility should be used to this happening and should have alternative food options available for her. I would talk to them about it.
I'm not sure the eating situation, i will call them today and request for them to try that and see how it goes. She does love sweets, but i try to get her, her favorite foods so that could be right maybe she doesn't care for it anymore.
Damn I never knew the sweet tooth thing. My granny has developed a very strong sweet tooth but we didn’t think much of it (granted we didn’t know she had dementia then)
I just went through this with my mom. Adding some fruit cups, mixing honey nut and regular cheerios, and getting the maple glazed turkey has helped. I even saw articles suggesting drizzling a little maple syrup on more savory dishes.
I'm going to call them today. I know her aides have brought it up to the nurses that work there, but they're always slow to act on anything. We are hoping to have her transfered to a facility that focuses on dementia/alzheimer's patients.
Did she get covid? Losing smell and taste cpuld lead to something like this for sure.
Being in a memory care facility would definitely be best for her at this point. They have more specialized training and can better serve her.
Thankfully she has never had covid. This was one of my first thoughts, but she is tested weekly.
Exactly, we know it's getting worse, but we want the best care. Sadly we have to wait about two months untilit can happen, but it will be so much better for her.
She is blessed to have family who cares and who is being proactive about her care. I wish you the best of luck!
Thank you so much!
