Having Power of Attorney is a good start. Do you take care of his bills now or is he still doing it? It might be time for you to take over, move them online when able, and change those passwords for extra security. When I took over my dad's finances I discovered that I probably should have done it long before. He was writing multiple checks to pay for one thing, writing the amount on the check in the signature field, etc. He overpaid so much money to his credit cards that he was thousands in credit, but the statements they'd send him showing the credit he would mistake as a balance due and pay that. It was such a hassle to get that straightened out. 

Can you work with your mom on developing a Healthcare POA, too? That's just as important as the financials. It's a good time to make those decisions, you never know when a hospitalization can occur, especially at his age. 

My dad is 82, he's had symptoms for about 4-5 years. I took over as POA last year and I'm glad I did because it's been in the last year that his decline really accelerated (doctor labeled it "late stage dementia"). His physical health is generally fine, but he's lost so much cognitive ability he's almost childlike. I know that within another year I'll have to put him into full-time supervised care.
This is the advice you are looking for.
Thank you for the advice, and I'm sorry to hear about your dad.

Yes, the healthcare POA I guess should be a priority. Once he gets past a certain stage he won't legally be able to authorize that anymore so I need to do it soon.

How did you approach it when you spoke to your dad? I'm worried he's going to take it really poorly. It's going to be hard to make it sound like anything other than "I don't trust you with your own money anymore", because that's exactly what it is.
Honestly, I didn't really bother to talk to him. He wouldn't have understood what I was trying to explain. I drew up the papers, I talked to his accountant and banker about it, and they both agreed it was needed. One day we went all together to the bank. Dad thought he was signing something to do with a tax return that was delayed (due to covid) and the banker notarized it right there. I felt a bit guilty about not being fully truthful but it was at the end of a few months of me gently coaxing him to let me help him with his bills, I just needed the POA to make it formal and legal. 

He has by now completely forgotten the entire concept of what bills are, what a car payment is, what insurance is, etc. Out of mind, out of sight.

You could just talk to your dad and say you want to help him make sure that his bills get paid on time, is it OK if he shows you what he's got? And honestly, sometimes you have to lie. That's the shitty thing with this disease. It requires us to be deceitful, but the intention is good. Can your mom also help with this conversation? What does she have access to that she can hand over to you? Joint accounts? Life insurance? Maybe you can "go in" that way.
Thank you, that's good advice. I have spoken to my parents and have agreed to go over this weekend to have a chat about things
