He needs something to do, and you need a home health worker.

Some of his acting out is probably because he's bedridden and has nothing to do. He's stuck in a bed, by himself. A change of scenery (such as wheeling him outside in a chair) would probably be beneficial. As well as providing things he can do. There are quilts and toys for dementia sufferers to play with. Any stimulation really. 

A home health worker can help with getting him out of the bed and dealing with him while you work. They can probably also get him to eat. It's not always the case but sometimes when people are nasty to family they are nicer to strangers. 

As an alternative you can try bribing him to get him to eat. If there is something he wants (for my grandpa it was cigarettes) tell him if he eats his food he can smoke a cigarette(or whatever he wants). Not to be harsh, but he's old and dying anyway. If he wants something unhealthy, let him have it, but use it to your advantage. 

If he persists with the violence you might need to look into placing him in long-term care. If he's refusing food it might be a better situation for all involved.
So sorry to read you are both suffering. There are medications that can help the screaming and aggression. Hopefully his medical providers can help.
Do you think music might help?
I've give him photos. He loves to see the photos he took. He looks at them like 10x a day. Latetly it stopped working. 

We already have a lady that comes to help for sometime. The problem is that they became friends. The only thing that works is to say that I'm leaving. I know it is a terrible thing to say, but it works most of the times.
The problem with food is giving him is meds. We have to smash them into little pieces and put it into a yougurt.
Thank you for your kindness
Maybe, he has a vinyl collection. I will give it a go
> I've give him photos. He loves to see the photos he took. He looks at them like 10x a day. Latetly it stopped working. 

In that case, and I mean this in the gentlest possible way, it's probably time to try something different. Dementia is tricky like that, it constantly changes, and just when you think you have the hang of it things get worse or different and you have to try and adapt. It might be that his vision/visual processing is worsening, or the photos don't remind him in the same way they used to. Maybe try something tactile? You'll have to suit it to his remaining abilities, but something that allows him to do something with his hands might help, and may take a bit more of his energy too so he has less to be agitated with. 

Also, what technique are you currently using to feed him? If you are just pushing a spoon towards his face, it may help to look into ways of involving him and his movement in bringing the food to his mouth. This video has an example of what I mean, may or may not be helpful ([https://youtu.be/7Ek04qjT-xQ?t=552](https://youtu.be/7Ek04qjT-xQ?t=552)) 

Hope some of this helps xx
Let us know how it goes. I hope it gives you all some relief.
100 times yes. I'm a Dementia Consultant and this response is spot on. Thank you.
We switched for something warmer than yogurts. It works much better.
However involving him with his hand to feed himself didn't work. He gets tired 
Thank you so much eveyone
Glad you found something that works!
