It's always reasonable to see a doctor in such a case. But I wouldn't be overly worried, I am 32 and have had the same issue when people I know well are wearing a mask. You say it was the end of the wedding, and he could have been really tired as well, which doesn't help.
I'd say go to a doctor and a neurologist. I wish i had done that a lot sooner for my dad.
When I took my mum to the dollarstore (she loves a good deal), she was chatting up a woman she remembered from a church from years ago. I went up to them and mum kept chatting. Then turned and said to the woman and I, “excuse me, I have to go find the person I came here with” and started to walk away. I was wearing a mask too.

It’s sad and worrisome. I would talk to a Dr. My mum won’t go, hasn’t been properly diagnosed. I work in healthcare and have consulted a few Psych/Neuro colleagues. 

We can only do what we can do.
i often have problems recognizing my husband -- especially in morning hours.  i am looking for the (much younger) man that i married.

And masks prevent identification as well as communication.  i know they are important during this time, but it is a HUGE issue for me 

\>>  [https://truthfulkindness.com/2020/08/16/mask-communication-id/](https://truthfulkindness.com/2020/08/16/mask-communication-id/) \#dementia #mask #communication.
Thank you for the reply. This was not a typical wedding, it's more like dinner and everything is over within 2 hours. So I don't think he was tired but he may have been sleepy. I notice him repeating me same story/information which I have told him few weeks prior and he has forgotten that it was me who told that in the first place. These kind of thing happened often during last few months and I didn't think much of it. I am not sure these are normal sign of aging or dementia

I know I should wait and see but I don't think he will tell me if something like this happens. My grandmother has dementia and I always felt we ignored it for too long. And if we treated her sooner the process would have been slower. 

Is there a even method to identify dementia this early?
I talked to him today about going to neurologist to identify the problem but he is refusing and not willing to even have a proper conversation about what happened. He is avoiding the subject, and I though he would response better since we all are well aware of what is going on with grandmother
Given that it was a wedding, I'm presuming you may have had your hair and makeup done differently to normal? This might also have contributed a little bit

That said, I'd say it's still worth getting him check out. The initial tests for cognitive decline are a set of tasks and questions designed to test the persons memory, problem solving, ability to follow instructions, and processing speed etc. 

Even if he takes the test and come back as being fine (which hopefully he is), then having done a similar test before will be helpful if he declines in the future as it gives a benchmark to measure any change against
Honestly, he should see at doctor. It could have been a minor stroke (TIA), and there might be things that could be done to prevent further problems, or at least lessen them. Perhaps you could have a respectful and caring talk with your dad. 

A GP will be able to do simple memory tests. Specialists can do more advanced tests. It is often possible to detect early dementia, patients often function quite well in their normal environment, but will perform worse on these cognitive tests because problem solving can't be done on "auto pilot" (like going to work or making coffee in your own kitchen). 

You have my best wishes and do take care. :)
I’m sorry. I know it’s hard and frustrating. Maybe approaching it as wanting to get blood work done to make sure all is well physically...and then it can be brought up when you’re there? If you attend appointment with him.
