The suffering she’d have if she got covid should concern you much, much more. I’ve worked in a locked down covid unit for months, watched 70 or so people die , received the vaccine myself and also helped with vaccination of hundreds of people now. I didn’t feel much after the first one, but I did have moderate side effects after the second dose for about 36 hours. Nothing that would keep me out of work or anything. Just kind of a crummy day. I also had covid last March. But there’s ancillary benefits of getting the vaccine to your parent such as her not spreading covid to other people or tying up a hospital bed since she’d be high risk to progress to severe disease. COVID is not a quick way to go. It’s very unpleasant. I would suggest sparing her that by any means necessary. As others have said, elderly people have much lower rates of side effects as well.
My grandma (90) is recovering from Covid. She almost died completely alone in a hospital bed, scared and without anyone to hold her hand. My Grandpa (92) was just making the terrifying decision of whether he should go in and risk getting sick or not get to say goodbye to the love of his life- when she began improving. 

She just got her vaccine and Grandpa is getting his tomorrow.
Yes. My 80+ yo parents are on the list to get vaccinated in their county in FL. My brother has already gotten the first dose (he’s a family medicine physician) with little side effects.

Mom is a colon cancer survivor and dad has a pacemaker and artificial heart valve. We feel it is in their best interest to get it. 

Also: they live in an active adult community and have get togethers regularly. Their generation really feels the need to be around other people and socialize. I think my parents actually grew up without land lines, so they really don’t know any other way and are having a hard time quarantining.
I'm in the same situation vaccinate her.
It doesn't really answer your existential dilemma but elderly people tended to have fewer side effects from the both vaccines. Likeky because their immune system is a little more sluggish to respond. 

You can also talk to her doctor about only getting one dose. Vaccines aren't generally all or nothing. We essentially vaccinate people to a level that a very high percentage of the population is likely to a very high level of protection. But some of the people who are vaccinated will actually end up with much less immunity than anticipated and some will end up with more. With multidose vaccines, the same is true - some people won't have adequate immunity even after 2 or 3 doses while other people will be protected from the first one. 

All that to say, you might be able to get a *titer test* for your mom after the first dose. Thats a test that measures her specific level of immunity. We don't test everyone like that bc it's typically way cheaper and easier to just... Give everyone a second dose. But when you have concerns about multiple doses, it might be a good option.
First, as another person with a parent suffering dementia, I salute you. 

You're doing great work for your mom, I believe she would appreciate you if she could. You're a good person.



Second, I would urge you to get her vaccinated as soon as it is offered. Not only because she might get Covid19 and die, but because of other possible negative outcomes- she doesn't need further complications to her dementia.

The mind/body effects on survivors of Covid are deeply unpredictable, and can sometimes be nearly as dire as death.

The science of this type of vaccine says it's relatively unlikely that she will respond negatively (or at all) to the vaccine, and she is more likely to be spared the potentially unpleasant experience of having this disease. If she does get it, she might not die of it, but that does not mean there are no follow-on effects!


For me, it is so very difficult to see the beautiful, vibrant, beloved person I knew disappear and their quality of life decline so precipitously, but I feel like some of our responsibility as caregivers is to help them be as comfortable as possible for as long as possible.
Part of that is helping them make decisions enabling them to protect themselves and others, when they can't.


While I strongly root for vaccination, whatever you choose, you're a good caregiver.


Spelling edit!
My 93-year-old MIL has gotten her first shot without any incident or side effects at all.  I have heard the 2nd shot may cause sniffles or low-grade fever.  I know for her this social isolation is about killing her anyway, she is getting very depressed and has started some odd behavior which we think is a ploy to get us to take her out of her memory care.

She could be fine without the vaccine, or she could get a light case, but she could also end up all alone dying in the hospital.  Even worse she could pass it along to someone else, and they could end up in the hospital dying all alone.   

Please let her have her vaccine.  If people don't get the vaccine then how long will we have to live like this?
my 86 y/o mom w/dementia got the first round of vaccine w/no side effects. She has always gotten all vaccinations.
I know. It’s partly the major burn out I’m in and the fear of her dying as a result of the vaccine. Me, hubby and young adult kids have all been quarantining since March. Work, school and social lives all have been online. No eating out. An only a very distanced mask required out door visit with one family and in-laws. Me and my son had a “ mild “ case of it before lockdown . It still was worse than anything we ever had.
Thank you for that perspective! In spit of her dementia her immune system has been almost kryptonite like.  She’s just in the I refuse to eat unless you “ dance” phase of it so she’s really thin.
Thank you .I needed that. I’m so burned out.
Very true.
Ok, this is going to seem totally random, but when was the last time she got an MMR vaccine? Did she ever get it?
I could hear that, in your post.

People not in caregiving roles don't understand how painful this is. It's okay to want the suffering to come to an end, for everyone.

If you're in the US, your local area council on ageing may have resources you may or may not have considered.
Everyone benefits if you caretake yourself first, it really, truly is NOT selfishness.

I'm learning, hopefully you can too, you can't set yourself on fire to keep others warm.
I don’t she has but I’ve been thinking about it as a “ bookmark” until the more is known about the vaccine . I know about the possible link between MMR immunity and Covid. She had measles , mumps , chicken pox and scarlet fever as a child. Not sure if she’d still need it. I might ask the doctor to do a titer test.
Yeah, so most adults who born before the 1950s did not get vaccinated but a lot of them have natural immunity from exposure. It might be well worth getting her MMR titers checked so that if you ultimately do decide you arent willing to risk the covid vaccine side effects, you might be comforted knowing of she has high MMR titers. 

If you're interested, the initial study was [very small](https://mbio.asm.org/content/11/6/e02628-20) but found that the positive covid outcomes was *not* related to age. It also outlines titer levels to the observed outcomes. 

I know it's still a really hard decision, but maybe knowing if she has at least a little tiny bit of protection might give you a little time to think things over and see how things play out for a little bit longer before you decide one way or the other.
Thanks. ❤️ I was thinking about having my whole family get a MMR booster long before COVID anyways.
