Wow. I have heard of and experienced COVID fog. I just read a post where a person experienced rapid onset dementia and not root cause has been identified. I wonder if COVID could be contributing.
My mom died last month. COVID fog pushed her to the point where she couldn't undergo a surgery anymore really. Between that and the bed rest while recovering from COVID, which weakened her muscles, a fall did her in. Can't help but think she would still be here if she didn't catch COVID.
My sister with FTD had Covid but was asymptomatic.  Sadly, 12 others in her memory care facility weren't so lucky and they died - a third of the residents who tested positive.  It really does seem to be particularly brutal for those with dementia.
My dad was just put into a memory care unit and had to be released to behavioral health after just 4 days due to violence. Within 4 days, he contracted Covid. He went from walking, talking, eating to not being responsive at all. He won't eat, drink, take meds or speak. We have NO idea what is going on. Maybe it's covid...maybe an event occurred in the brain. I'll try to keep this thread updated.
Yes. My father tested positive for Covid on New Year’s Eve, and has declined rapidly in an insanely short time. He lost his ability to swallow, talk, walk, everything. We moved him into his partners home for hospice care just yesterday. Most difficult thing I’ve ever experienced. He was declining before this, yes, but just a month ago he was talking and waking and able to understand, he went downhill very quickly.
Hmm ya, I was curious which is why I posted this. It is very interesting that multiple people talk about this COVID fog in their family members w dementia.
RIP, my condolences
Very sorry about your loss. This pandemic has been so awful.
This is almost identical to what is going on now with my family. My grandmother will not even eat anymore. She won’t move, won’t get out of bed, won’t eat, doesn’t talk. They think if she makes a comeback she will need to go to rehab and then a facility.
