I hate this aspect of "it", I was a 12hr day office guy, part-time visiting places all over my region for work.
When not working was involved in a couple of sports every week that required intense concentration. Up to age 52 plus. 

Then the confusion started and short term memory failing, to the point everything in my life became a mess. Next step was just sitting and checking out of life. Had been divorced a couple years earlier and was alone. When my "friends" found out most disappeared. Some just scared and some because
I was not able to followup like I used too.


A couple of years in the house except for doc visits,
to be aware of it (apathy) while deep down I know what I was and the things that made me, well me, disappear and what seems helpless to stop it. 

After reading what most went thru I was able to discern I was part of that small % that is aware, but as we all know that doesn't last.

Fuck apathy and being almost incapable of coming out of despite meds etc. Have good days and appreciate them but a highly motivated guy gone it hard to accept.
Hope that makes sense.
There really is not. I low dose SSRI might help, but side effects might be an issue. Finding simple projects related to his past hobbies or careers might be helpful to get him engaged again.
Mom has had more success with Effexor which is not an SSRI but SSNRI I think. I try to meet mom where she is each day. Keep routine which includes things she used to enjoy, give options for things she might like to try even if she hasn't in the past. Remove the barriers as much as possible. For example keep visits short and give her an escape route if she gets overwhelmed. Also her hearing contributes to some of her confusion and lack of interest. So we are getting hearing aids.
It there a medication that helps for this issue ?
Early on we tried a stimulant and at the time it worked AND helped concentration. I developed a "tic" and my tongue was rubbing my teeth till it cut a line (in my tongue that hurt like hell) so we stopped and a few months later the tic stopped.

Anyone had luck my doc (neuro) has an open mind.

Tried a SNRI for couple years, to no effect (was heck weaning off)
Medications and psychotherapy can help restore interest in life
Thanks for suggestion. Yes, looking into setting more time aside for stuff like that.
Thanks. I'll look into this.  Because it is indifference and not depression or something more serious, I hesitate to try something that's side effects out weight the positive.
