You're going to want to look into your state's [Look-Back Period](https://www.medicaidplanningassistance.org/medicaid-look-back-period/) before any assets get transferred. He has good intentions, but it could screw him over in the long run.
This is something your Dad needs to discuss with an estate attorney.  Preserving financial assets while planning for and maintaining eligibility for government assistance can be very complicated and dependent on the details.  

So I would not do anything before consulting with a professional.

There are also other considerations.  For example, in my state at least if you can private pay for memory care for a certain amount if time, then run out of funds and switch to medicaid, the facility can’t kick you out.  But if you start on medicaid, then you only have a choice of Medicaid facilities which are often...not good.  So it can be to your Dad’s long term advantage to keep some money if that option might be available.

So this is something else to discuss with a professional planner.
Yeah, that risking falling into welfare fraud. The idea is, "Give all the money to the family, and then have the government (Medicare) pay for things." The government will come looking for the money at some point, and using "clawback" provisions, will take it from the heirs. You definitely want to see how much he can give you before this is likely to happen.
Consult an Elderlaw attorney in your state. You don't want him doing anything that will risk the whole family having to pay for his care cost as a penalty for "gifting" that money. There are legal ways to do it. Spend the money to do it legally or you will likely lose more than he gives.
5 years. I used to a lawyer/Medicaid consultant and I had to show every expense into and out of her accounts for the past 5 years which was >999$.

If you can get his assets to below 2,000 and keep them there for 5 years before he needs to go to a facility it should be ok. The other option is if he has any disabled children. They can be gifted his assets without a look back period. 

I just went thru this last summer and it was a really bad time. Thankfully my mom passed away without being at the nursing home very long, she stayed home until she was helpless.
A Benedictine care facility may be worth looking into. They take a percentage of income up front but they will keep a patient in their care facilities even when the person’s money runs out and Medicaid takes over.
Came here to say this
Thanks, this is really ...complicated.

Luckily, we're talking small beans here. Not sure how else to describe it. We're not heirs to a software company or anything. This is strictly blue collar territory. My guess is 10k to myself and my sister.

Some cursory reading suggests if we start gifting this year, we should be mostly alright?

Thanks again.
May I ask which state are you in?
Thanks for the insight! 

His wife is pretty on top of things but I don't know who they've consulted with yet. 

Defintely someone because of the Power of Attorney docs. I'll have to ask his wife more questions.
Thanks. We're relucantly accepting it, to say the least.
Thanks for the detailed reply man, really helps. I could see them being nervous about that strategy - but it makes a lot of sense. 

Of course, it's less about getting the money into our hands and more about honoring his wishes. 

Thanks again.
This is the first I'm hearing about a facility like that, thanks. I'll do some looking. I imagine there's one in their area.
A better idea may be to have him get his affairs in order and name someone as his power of attorney \[edited to say I see you already did this\] and make sure they can get access to his funds to pay his bills.  He can leave his estate to you in a will.  If he ends up needed long-term care, I can tell you from experience that $10K will be gone within a couple of months.

A medicaid bed is a last resort, from what I've seen.  A more suitable placement is memory care, which are generally private pay and ridiculously expensive, so once he exhausts his funds, the financial burdon will be on family anyway if you wish to keep him there.

My grandma also tried to send me all her money, which I advised her not to, knowing she was going to need it.  Her entire life savings was gone within a couple of years on memory care.  The only assistance I've lined up for her is the VA benefit for surviving spouse since her deceased husband served in WWII.  It's less than 25% of what her facility costs per month.

The next step will be a skilled nursing facility (nursing home) and we will apply for medicaid at that point, but since she has been very well physically (for a 99 year old) I've been advised throughout this process that a nursing home is not where she needs to be.  Getting her into a nursing home has been the challenge because the costs are about $10 per month, and unless she's admitted after being hospitalized for 3 consecutive nights, medicare doesn't pay a cent between the time she goes in and the medicaid application is accepted...they want me to write a check for $20K up front.  I honestly don't know how poor people do this, and I'm still trying to figure it out.  It's not that I want to get my grandma's money...that's already gone, I just can't keep paying thousands per month.
That's still $20k that could have gone towards his care. And if he winds up needing more care sooner than anticipated, they might come after you and your sister for that money. Or it will be X-amount of months longer before Medicaid will kick in, which means that any cost associated with his care will have to come out of his pocket somehow.
Colorado
I would meet with an Elderlaw attorney. They usually do free consults.
I think they likely don’t advertise about their Benedictine principle, and of course I can’t speak for all of the Benedictine care centers, but the one our area tells you when you tour it that if the resident run ms out of funding and need to apply for Medicaid assistance,, they don’t make you move out. The place my mother currently is that she will need to move if she lives long enough that her funding runs low. I think because her current living situation is assisted living, but the primary complex (as a business) is simply senior independent living. 
Best wishes!!
Thanks for the detailed reply. Especially the last bit. 

I had avoided talking about ethics and feelings - but that last bit hits close to home. 

If someone asked me to write a $20k check, I'd laugh them out of the room. 

Best of luck to you. Hang in there.
Thank you
No kidding. I never would have guessed. That will be crazy helpful.
In the US there’s a service called legalshield, which costs $29/mo and can be cancelled anytime. Membership gets you phone consults with a local law firm and standard docs like POAs and wills. (The legalshield law firm in my area has a riverside penthouse suite in the local college town.) You can sign up on their website.
Thanks man, I could definitely do that. I live in a pretty big metro, I'm sure they're around.
Be careful with kegalshield.  My dad had it.  They refused to help me because they said it was a conflict of interest since I'm poa and trying to get my dads money transferred to me.  I told them it was what my dad wanted but they still refused to help.  So I had been paying them got months for nothing. 

Different firms work for legal shield per state.  Id just make sure they will actually help you before you pay for months of their servicr.
Good to know, I haven't reached out yet. 

Man, this sure is a messy deal. Not really caring one way or the other about the money - but untangling the legal stuff is nuts.
