Are you capable of moving out, or are you dependent on your moms house? Unfortunately with your aunt in control your power is limited. But as long as she can say you’re a live in care giver your ability to get help from a social services program is limited. You need to have the leverage to move out to make things better for both of you.
I would call APS. Your mothers sister being against placement, of any kind, indicates to me she wants her check. I do social work so for me this isn’t a terrible accusation. It’s pretty normal. I’d call APS so this is documented and then I’d get an attorney to take POA. If she isn’t going to help and this is your problem then she can stop “supervising.” Take the power back in your life.
Print out what you just posted and  call Family or Adult Protective Services in your State  or County. Please don't go cleaning the house before they come out. You want to see what it's really like on a normal day or week.  I don't know but apparently you maybe disabled yourself. If your mother doesn't have anything of significant value. She needs to get vaccinated and into a nursing home. If you're disabled Medicaid allows you to stay in the home until you yourself pass. I'm sorry you're going through this.

 Although I've been caring for my parents for 16 years. My mom was mean, hateful and argued about everything. She wouldn't cooperate and I hold all their Power of Attorney and  am executor of their wills. I called Adult Protective Services and reported myself. Why? Liability. Right now both my parents are on hospice and I've hired MyCare a service that comes out and cooks breakfast and dinner is cooked and put in tupperware containers for reheating.  They clean the house and do the dishes etc. 

Hospice sends someone out to bathe them both daily M-F. All medications are delivered and doctors come to them. They do their pillboxes and order any medications that need refills. Hospice also sends an RN out once a week. If you ever need anything to care for them they'll take care of it as long as it's related to the diagnosis including pads, pullups, wipes etc. The hospice is covered 100%by medicare. Once mom and dad get vaccinated for Covid-19 they're going to a nursing home. 

If your mother has significant residual income. Please call a hospice company and ask them for the name of a Senior Benefits Attorney that attorney will most like also be a Senior Financial Consultant & a Senior Benefits Manager. He'll handle any interfacing with Medicaid. If she's not Medicaid Compliant he can help you get her there.

 The nursing home care cost will be covered by Medicaid if she's Medicaid Compliant. If all the income she has is her Social Security check it will be applied for nursing home care.  She'll get to keep $40 for little things if she goes to the nursing home. If she has significant holdings and you're her only child or you have siblings.

 He'll probably suggest that she start gifting the maximum amount allowed by the Internal Revenue Service which is 15k per year per child none taxable. But don't go over that amount by one cent or it will be taxable. If you need to gift out as much as possible do it the first of each year to each yearself & siblings if applicable.  Sorry but I don't know if that includes grandchildren. Again to stay sane and try to get someone to come and let you  get away a few hours a day or a weekend. I  think it's called respite care. 

This term is what is for like an Adult Care Giver or Adult Day-care Person. Please if your mother ends up going to a nursing home and you stay in the home. If you yourself are disabled make sure you update that with your local home appraisal district or your county tax assessor and collector. So they can apply all the deductions applicable. But trust me that attorney will answer any questions you have.

 Before you go see him or her.  Most times they will come to you. Please make a list of all the questions you have ahead of time. Good luck to you and stay safe and covid-19 free.
The tweaks you can do are what can make or break your whole situation, IMO. For urinary (and other) incontinence, try the following:

\-- Use pullups in conjunction with pads

\-- Layer the pads, using even 3 or 4 layers. The pad that sticks to the pull up is left as is. But each new pad that is layered on top of that you have to get a knife and poke about 50 holes in the pad. Do this with each additional pad. Make sure the pullups are at least a size too large to accommodate the extra pads. These will then leak the urine into each other, creating a super pad, without drenching the pullup (which can be reused if you do this right). It will be remarkably dry where it touches her body. I've done this for years with my mother with great success, and it can get her through the night. I basically give her 5 checks on her pad a day, and in the middle of the day do an additional change of just the topmost pad (the part that touches her) when we do her drink. 

\-- Pro tip: to be able to pull off the pad that you stick to the pull up, you take moisturizing cream and spread a little over the sticky part, then stick it onto the pull up. It seems like it wouldn't stick after that, but it sure does, but it can now be pulled off without ripping up the pull up, so you get a few uses out of the pull up. 

This stuff is very hard to deal with, but you'll be amazed at how many tweaks/hacks you can come up with as you think about it, ask around, etc., and these can make such a difference that you can't even imagine. In the end, those tweaks may save you so much suffering, even though they are just "tweaks".
*Hugs*. Ok, so you are probably going to get alot of great advice in the eldercare and legal areas so I will not comment on any of that; though I see alot of similarities between you and I, perhaps my experience could help you? I struggled for years with depression, self hate, and the inability to finish any task I started. My house was a disaster and I could never seem to make progress. Lethergy and burnout would set in, and I would need a two week vacation from all responsibilities to get myself in order. I blamed myself. I was treated for depression and anxiety on and off my whole life. And then I was diagnosed with ADHD (actually my husband and I both at age 29) and everything started to fall into place.

A great starting resource is additudemag.com (I am not affiliated just a fan). There is so much practical stuff on there and resources to learn more. Even non-ADHD people will find useful life tips.

Anyways, I wish you luck with everything. *Hugs*
There is also a device your moms could use for overnight care for incontinence that they advertise on TV. You just have to empty it out in the morning. Kinda like a siphon that absorbs the pee and it goes into a holding tank. I can’t remember what it’s called though...I’ll try to google it.

Okay it’s called purewickhome.com and it’s an external catheter urine collection system. Might work for your mom. My mom didn’t want it because she wants to be able to get up at night and go to the restroom.
Hope this helps you.

Edit; to add info
Get power of attorney and medical power of attorney. At 72 in CA, she'll likely be vaccinated within the next 2 months, at which point you can move her into assisted living (or memory care). Other people have better suggestions about what to do in the mean time, but I think the burden should ease off of you pretty soon.
I can move out and go live with my dad and stepmom in Portland if worse comes to worse; I have yet to threaten with that.

Other than that I’m completely dependent on mom’s money; it’s hard for me to pass any of the personality tests that jobs give out nowadays online, and the fact that I’ve never had a job has an impact on my ability to get one.
I wanted one when I was 14 and throughout high school but both parents kept telling me I didn’t need one, and same in college (which I ended up dropping out of unfortunately); I was always given the option of either school OR job and I chose school.
Remember POA only is your legal stuff. Who makes her medical decisions? Are you her health care proxy? They are not the same thing. 
APS is not like CPS they can’t really “do” anything but they should be able to help you help your mom. You need linkage to services and such. Have you contacted Alzheimer’s Association? They have good info on memory loss abd generally partnered with other agencies in your county that may be a better fit. 
Have you called her PCP? They need to know. They will be who you need on your team to establish home care and fill out forms demonstrating medical need. As if the office has a Medical Social Worker.
Oddly enough, Aunt probably has more money than mom does. She doesn’t receive any money from us at all. Family is just kinda weird about how family is taken care of. They were against my cousin being placed in a care home as well.

Mom is still sane enough to the point I could probably convince her to let me have POA; we’ve had the talk about if something happens and what she wishes, and really aunt and I are on the same page on that. aunt is also 8 years older than mom so I mean I want to make sure there’s no weird legal shit that happens if she passes before my mom. I also don’t really want my brother to have it as I’ve said he’s bipolar and not always completely rational (I mean sometimes I’m not either but at least I’m more rational than him).
What is POA? Never mind-it’s power of attorney duh!
I have been thinking that once COVID is over I could have someone come out and help, but with how bad it is in my area I just don’t want to risk anything; I know for a fact mom would die if she caught it (former smoker, diabetic, obese), and I probably wouldn’t fair too well either.

Really everything was fine until the damn virus hit and fucked everything up; we had a routine; we’d go out to breakfast and most of the time dinner as well every day, which of course required us both to get up and clean up. House was clean as well, albeit a bit stinky from litter box placement (hoping to solve this by moving the boxes to different locations instead of all in the dining part of the kitchen as well as better odor control litter and pee pads for slightly senile senior cat)

I did have a talk with my mom a bit earlier and she’s agreed to let me get a temporary storage place to put things in that we definitely want to keep so I can start cleaning ‘her’ parts of the house.

I just need help getting mom to cooperate on doing things herself while we’re still in this pandemic.

I have wondered if I am disabled a few times...I just never really considered mental disabilities outside of people being unable to take care of themselves.

Edit: I should also add, and I fuckin hate telling people this, but we’re not exactly middle class...upper upper middle class really, but there’s definitely still that gap between upper class and us. Mom, brother, and I could comfortably live without jobs for the rest of our lives unless shit really hits the fan, as long as we don’t go crazy spending on everything (besides the fact that nothing is exactly solid assets, mein fits a whole other deal.)
Attitudemag.com is a really helpful tool. I have to break things down otherwise I become overwhelmed also. I have ADHD and chronic major depression. So every night I make a list of 6 things I want to do. For instance my extra room at the house was a dumping ground for stuff, so I just afford myself one hour a day to work in that room. I also caretake 24/7 my mom who is 95 and it’s always a challenge. She also has bladder issues and mobility issues, so I have to be on hand and 100% present. There’s tons of laundry every day from her incontinence, but she’s a darling and I’m grateful to spend these years together with her
*hugs* I am actually diagnosed ADD and really had finally started to get my shit together before COVID hit...2020 was going to be the year I would start cooking more at home, get better eating habits for both me and my mom, and also both of us exercise so we could lose weight together. Covid really fucked everything up.

I’ll definitely look into the mag! Thank you!
I understand I once heard a shrink say your only as sane as the 4 closest people you hang around with the most. That's when I thought  well then I guess I need to go to the nut hut again. I sympathize with you on covid-19.

 Today I worked with a Social Worker on how to get vaccines for mom and dad. Apparently there's none to be had right now. Maybe Biden will share our sense of urgency before I get bat shit crazy.
