Early onset dementia is defined as before age 65, which means mid 60's is the beginning of "standard" dementia. Having a diagnosis done by their normal physician or a referral to a neurologist will be helpful in knowing how to break through the miasma and proceed to helping them. Contact the doctor before the appointment with specific concerns and examples of behavior because your parents will likely be on their top cognitive behavior with the doctor. There are some medications that can help with cognitive decline and they work best in early stages. If you can address the truth of dementia early and have the tough conversations around future health, money and living decisions, it will go a long way in their comfort of knowing they had control over the decisions, and your comfort of knowing you are doing the best for them.
Its hard to tell without specifics, but It could be "normal" aging or it could be a sign of something more. A lot of older people tend to live more and more in an echo chamber and their views and opinions get more extreme and alarming. You'll find a lot of posts on reddit about people whose parents do nothing but go to their conservative church, sit and home watching fox news channel constantly, and reading posts from their friends on Facebook. It's almost like they're brainwashing themselves in a way, honestly. 

So depends if the bad decision making is, like, confusedly thinking Prager U is an actual university. Or if they're trying to send their money to a Nigerian Prince. Or they're calling the police because the floor lamp looked at them wrong. 

If they're *both* behaving completely erratically all of a sudden, I'd be more concerned about, like, carbon monoxide poisoning than simultaneous dementia developing in exactly the same way and at exactly the same rate.
Can you be more specific?
Are you seeing things like dirty clothes, drastic weight changes, bills not paid, saying things that are inappropriate, notes about doing simple tasks, friends and family voicing concern for them? Are they saying the same things over and over or getting lost?  Do they appear to be driving okay?  Their car doesn't have a lot of unfixed dents?  

There is something called a MMSE, a Mini Mental State Exam to determine whether they should be referred to a neurologist.  Before our MIL had hers done her family made a list of things they used to do and now can't or things that seem strange.  We told her it was a good idea to have one done to establish a baseline.
Could it be that they are overmedicated or abusing alcohol? It seems odd that they'd both be experiencing similar symptoms from a physical issue. It also because they're so isolated that their normal meter for social interaction has become skewed. Would they be open to a full physical with bloodwork?
Keep an eye out for two things: 1) dehydration. Be aware of how much they drink per day. You can't go by their getting thirsty, as they might just not get thirsty enough. And 2) see about their blood sugar. If it's elevated, do everything you can go get them on metformin, as a recent study showed rather convincingly (to my mind) that keeping blood sugar lower can decrease dementia.
That was exactly my thought, about something in their environment that is not right. Especially when they are likely to be spending a lot of time at home.
Sorry, the floor lamp comment got me laughing ... good one
And UTIs, in both men and women.  Also, UTIs can also be symptoms of diabetes, your second point.
Plus a time to drink drink is a good time to take a cranberry pill or drink cranberry juice cocktail, regular or low sugar.
Also, Greek yogurt with live cultures is always a good idea--for anyone, not just the elderly.  

Just get plain, whole version (NO non-fat), add fruit and honey or monk fruit sweetener (costco has it and it doesn't spike blood sugar, per Bobby Flav--NOT Bobby Flay--on YouTube).  It can really help gut biome.  

Other use for it?  It's a real good substitute for sour cream as a side topping.  No idea how it would work in cooking.
