A meteor could strike you down tomorrow. I know it sounds redundant but you never know what could happen tomorrow. I am currently watching my mother suffer from early onset... It is terrifying to say the least and I’ve often considered doing 23 and me for a gene test like yourself but I don’t know if I want to know. Anyways the whole point is the day someone dies or becomes disability, they usually don’t wake up knowing it is their day. Realize that everyone’s days are numbered and you happen to have a PROBABILITY not a DIAGNOSIS.
if i recall correctly APOE4 is general-age onset not early onset, but since i am a Person Living with Dementia symptoms my memory is definitely not reliable.

1. My first suggestion is to see if you can get long-term health coverage.  Once you have the slightest dementia symptoms in your medical chart you will NOT be able to get it.
2. YES; nightmares can be triggered by sleep breathing problems.  Get a sleep study and find out if you need a CPAP machine.  Sleep is crucial, and lack of sleep can cause dementia symptoms in an otherwise-healthy individual.  
3. try to get a Neuro-psych while you are as close as possible to the top range of your cognitive abilities (even if you need to pay out-of-pocket) -- it can make a lot of difference in how long it takes to get a diagnosis, so DisAbility funding.
4. IF/when the symptoms become a diagnosis, do not delay in searching for a peer group.  There are Dementia Mentors, Dementia Alliance International, Dementia Action Alliance, etc.
5. i write about dementia symptoms and strategies at [www.truthfulkindness.com](https://www.truthfulkindness.com)
you're right, anyone of us could have something happen. I probably wont quit my job and party it up thinking the end is near. I'll try the make the best of things as they are without doing anything crazy. Researching lifestyle changes which might help. I already stopped benzos and drinking, two things mom loved.
As someone who is still trying their damn hardest to get off Benzos (Prescription) good for you. I’ve read that there is a possible link to dementia but not confirmed, still in our case is not the best idea. Good for you! Also let me ask you this if you could do one thing different right now what would you do?
I would sleep well, I know my mother had a lot of sleep problems and I do too. Wish I could have quality sleep but can't seem to do it. The slightest sounds wake me up if the nightmares don't. I always wake up very early in the morning no matter what and haven't owned an alarm clock since high school. Early waking is a symptom of depression I've read.
Ever seeked out psychiatric help? I’m only 24 but thankfully mental help is not taboo as it used to be.
