There is no timetable.  I've also noticed that they can go from awful one day to much better the next.  Also, they can be better with one person than with someone else.
My own dementia symptoms began just over 20 yrs ago.  Harry is at 17yrs i think.  Christina is also over 20yrs.  Most of my dementia friends are out-living doctors' expectations.  

at 58yrs old, it is VERY possible he has mixed dementia (at point of death, most folks with alz had more than one type of dementia but the others were not even recognized -- so no strategies were put in place).  The most common types of early-onset dementia are Fronto-Temporal and Lewy Body Dementia.  Here is a page i did on some of the most common types of dementia >> [https://truthfulkindness.com/about/d-info/](https://truthfulkindness.com/about/d-info/) .

All types of Dementia are brain-failure, but different types target different parts of the brain first.  Dementia is a constantly-changing process of finding your "new normal", GRIEVING those losses, then finding strategies to cope with those new-or-progressing symptoms, and finding new PURPOSE in life --despite dementia.

PURPOSE is what sustains hope -- because it changes what "hope" means to us.

\-==- and both PLwD (person living with dementia) and loved ones, need to get to the point that they can FOCUS on remaining abilities instead of what is lost .  That will be interspersed with all those periods of grief.  That is life, and neither of you needs to be alone in it.  Check out [www.dementiamentors.org](https://www.dementiamentors.org) <3
His lifestyle change definitely seemed to help with memory at the early stage, but it does not prevent it from progressing by any means. I can tell you that this will only get harder. At some point, you're gonna have to accept that your dad's memory will continue to fade and his ability to be independent will decrease over time. the sooner you accept this, the easier it will be to move forward and support him as he ages. It's a very scary,  stressful thing and I'm so sorry you and your family have to go through this. I highly suggest you seek out a therapist if accessible (because this experience can be traumatic for anyone) and a support group for family members of people with dementia. There's more out there than you think!

Dementia is interesting because it's SO slow, and it's certainly painful to watch your parent decline like this. But this also means you still have lots of time to make little moments between you and your father meaningful. Continue to take advantage of that, reminisce about your childhood memories of him, rather than using it as a chance to check whether he remembers. If he doesnt, don't make him feel bad about it, but hey! now you get to tell him all about "that one time at the park" or something, and he will probably love to hear you have such fond memories with him. Let me repeat: **you still have time.**

Talk with your family to come up with plans on how best to support your dad and keep up his quality of life. Do research, get some opinions, find tricks and tips that work for ya'll, stick with in-home care as long as possible. Be flexible moving forward and lower your standards for whether your dad is "doing good" or not. As long as he is safe, warm, clean, and happy, he is good, even with middle or late stage dementia.
My dad turned 80 last month ,
His memory and logic has been all over the place, has difficulty knowing whether it's morning or evening,  he had this following his second heart attack in 2017.
Back in 2019  he would have partial memories  of things but be really off like thinking Holland is a short walk from Vancouver BC. 
He also believes he was in outer space and on the moon.  It was incredibly difficult to get  medication regularly for him especially when he kept saving it for later in case he runs out, or thought the nurse team was a cover for being the kgb

I have a transcript from a nurse in 2018
"
He does have some kind of Alzheimer's,  mixed, vascular dementia? You know that? That's what the geriatrics specialist said. His score, MoCA, for someone that is cognitively inclined it is 30. His was 11. So he has quite significant cognitive decline."

Overall he still seems okay  , but if someone talks with him they might find something is off. I started a tracker on his phone after he wandered off and I had to get missing persons involved to find him  , instead of his usual mailbox walk  he'd turned and give an extra 2km away,  and when I  met him he was comparing his arm muscles to the policeman.
Thank you for taking the time to write this. It makes me feel happier(hopeful) to know that there are people out there that are diagnosed with dementia and can still go on to live some happy years. 

I will take a look at the website you posted.
