For some people w dementia, they seem to think that however things are that day or moment are how they will be forever. It can be so frustrating.  I'm sure its even harder for them, though.
I know that bathroom issues seem to be a big issue with the elderly. Here is an [article](https://muschealth.org/medical-services/geriatrics-and-aging/healthy-aging/bowel-habits) that focuses on it.  Things just start to wear out so it all works differently than it did before. If he is able to take care of his movements that is amazing because so many people aren't able to do that but won't acknowledge it so then it turns into a huge argument and health issue.  I think it must be hard for people when they didn't experience many health challenges in their life to have to deal with them now. 

My 94 year old MIL also freaks out if any change happens and gets very pessimistic about life but when she is able to sleep well she has a  much better day.  My husband found the best way to interact with her is to not argue with her over anything.  If she says, "I need to get out of here" he'll just say "I wish you could, Mom" and that seems to help her.   

Hang in there, I'm not sure if it makes you feel better that it sounds like your dad is doing well compared to so many others on this post.
My 96 year old mom is obsessed with pooping. I get the “poop report” daily. If she doesn’t poop every day, she asks for a laxative. (And no, I don’t give her laxatives). If she poops more than once a day, she tells me all about it. Sometime she wants me to come and look at it. At least she’s not digging her hands in it like some dementia patients do!  It’s a lot like having a toddler.
   Rhanks, didnt think of that. he was happy at sleeping great for a couple nights due to increasing his sleep med. Then last night slept lousy so hes down. Hopefully he sleeps tonight. I just remind him theres ups and downs cause his system changes and he'll probably be fine this time.
   Thank you, it does help. This is timing cause he is now laying down after what was apparently a massive stinky poo. He says he is ok but he is always weakened by these. Just cant get him to drik enough water and thats the only thing I can put his metamucil in. he is very picky about what he eats. i may start dong mashed potatoes every dinner and put it in there.
His doc upped his sleep med and for two days he slept like old times, then back to his new normal. We will do the best we can.
Thanks
   Aye, that it is. I tell my dad there's people his age who would love to be able to poop regular like he does. I think alot of his issues would lessen if he would drink enough water. he just wont. he asks me to remind him and when I do he always tells me he just put it down, lol.
