i’m probably not the most qualified person to answer your question but my grandfather also had vascular dementia as well as Alzheimer’s and he was on palliative care for roughly a month. he got to a stage where he was unable to swallow at all, and prior he haven’t eaten for almost two weeks, he lasted roughly a week after that with only the mouth care the palliative nurses told us to do. this is most definitely not a definite answer because like others have said, everyone is affected differently - but i know what it feels like to want an answer to that question. it’s such a heartbreaking time, all my best for you and your family.
Hard to say, some deteiorate and pass quickly others take their time. We have 1 gentleman that's similar to your grandfather whose been on palliative for 6 months. I know this is probably a frustrating answer but im not there to measure your piece of string. I wish you all the best in this difficult time.
You are a wonderful grandson. I am sure he is very proud of you. Sounds like you did right by him and I am sure he knows that you did on some level we don’t/ can’t understand. May that be some comfort to you.
I don't know enough to give you an answer, but wanted to let you know I'm sorry for your grandfather and family as it is do difficult to go through and watch it happen.  Sending good energy your way.
[deleted]
My family and I strongly believe that when someone stops eating and drinking it is time for them to move on.

Godspeed to your precious gpa.
[deleted]
Thank you so much and I am sorry you have experienced this pain. I think it sounds like he is coming to that stage because he’s just sleeping and hardly drinking. He apparently took a couple of sips of tea today but other than that had just slept. I just want him out of all this pain and suffering, bless him. He deserves so much more than to die this way, it’s heartbreaking.
Thank you. I appreciate it is hard to gauge. I just hope his suffering does not continue for long
Thank you. I hope he knows how much I love him. Your comfort means a lot, so thank you.
Thank you very much x
Thank you for this. I think this is being arranged by my aunt, but I will confirm it’s her.
hi, i don’t mind at all. my grandad also had blood pressure issues and he had a lot of other ailments that affected him. we believe it all started with a large stroke. he started falling and forgetting people - he asked us to move in with him at the start of the year to look after him as he didn’t want to go in a home, and he gave up with everything then - he became argumentative and then we think he had another large stroke as he became bedbound for about 6 months before he passed and was completely incontinent for roughly that long too. though he was still talking, he just didn’t know who anyone was. he was constantly talking to himself or would see people in his room. in his last month of life, after he was taken off his tablets by the doctor as he couldn’t swallow and instead put on patches, he didn’t really talk at all and the few sentences he did say was to my father saying goodbye. he stopped eating three days before christmas and he stopped being able to swallow roughly 7 days before he passed. we don’t believe he was in any pain when he passed and the nurses were great with him. it was just horrible in the last seven days, he had lost so much weight and he was just sleeping all day. 
i’m really sorry you’re going through this, i wish you and your family all the best - if you have any questions please ask!
you’re welcome! yeah grandad was sleeping a lot before he passed. i know exactly what you’re feeling - it’s not right to let a person suffer like that, it is no life really. you don’t want your last memories of a person to be that, just try to remember the good times with him. all the best x
Thank s again x
