Oh, I'm so, so sorry.  Sending love and hugs from an internet stranger. 

This is so hard and scary. Hard to watch her go and scary to not know who you are with out her, if I am reading this right.  But I want to let you know what I got from your words:

1) You are capable- you are pretty young, you had no experience with this stuff, and you just did the things that needed doing because you knew you had to. Think about how difficult that was and how scary and uncertain, and you stepped up to the plate and carried the rest of the game. How do you think your mom would rate your level of care, concern, attention, and love if she could see everything you had to do, from the mundane to the truly difficult? She'd probably tell you how you are a badass god/ess (or a similar sentiment). 

2) You are independent- you did this mostly on your own. Should you have had to? No, and I'm sorry you were in that position.  But you *did.* 

3) You are brave- not only have you faced down the darkness of your mom's illness, but it seems like you've been battling the added dragons of really crappy family on top of everything else. And you have soldiered on, you are prepared to defend what is yours from the vultures that circle.  

4) You are feeling lost, and unsure of the future, so use what you know of your mom to help light the way for you. What were your plans before she got ill? She probably would have been you biggest cheeeader for whatever you chose to do. Even if at that time you didn't know. She might think, "you fought for so long, and took such good care of me, and gave so much of yourself, and you deserve to find and follow the path of your choosing. You deserve the education you wanted, or the job you wanted, or the love you wanted, the friends, the experiences you wanted to have." A loving parent wants their child to walk where they will, free of heavy burdens, secure in the knowledge that no matter what, they are loved. If you and your mom are best friends, she wouldn't want anything less.

So to recap, you are capable, brave, independent, and walk this world knowing mom would be cheering you on.

On a practical note, if you see expecting trouble, see about getting an estate lawyer to make sure everything is solid and that you and your mom's estate are protected. Get a ring camera for your home, change locks if there is any chance that the toxic family has a key, and maybe move really sensitive or important or just plain sentimental items to a safety deposit box or another secure location no one has access to. 

Hug your dog, love on your mom, love yourself. This will be hard, but it is nothing you can't handle, even if you don't realize it yet.
Adding hugs to you and OP for that beautiful response.
So sorry for your loss
Thank you but we just lost her. At least she’s no longer suffering
Added hugs from me, too.
so so sorry for your loss. you are amazing and she would have been very proud and is now smiling down upon you now. 💕❤️
