I found that bribing works well. My grandmother loved sweets, specifically lollipops, and I would give her one if she let me change her or wash her. I would have a whole bushel of them and she could pick one. I had to keep them in her eyesight the whole time to remind her of the treat while changing her. She liked the lemon ones so I purposely would only have one lemon available at a time, because if she didn’t fall for the trick I could say “well then I guess I’ll just treat myself to last lemon pop,”. Might sound horrible now that I think about it, but two hours later the trick was all brand new again. Also, I only had to do this on bad days. So if he starts to think of you as the treat lady maybe that could help with his view of you.
Try a different tactic. Instead of speaking softly try to be assertive in your approach. See what methods the other staff use who have success and imitate. Try and descretely observe.
I don’t think he hates you, he hates his miserable situation. I don’t mean to question your thoughts, it’s just that my dad was an accomplished man who ended up a shell of his former self. He was mad at the world. 

Think of him as a child, bribes sound good, don’t ask - tell him what you’re doing and why. My sister always made the mistake of asking and my dad’s automatic reply would be no. 

If he yells at you, say, sternly, I’m sorry you feel that way but do not yell at me. 

Oh the craziness we females must endure, and we never know if it’s because we are who we are or if we have tattoos or whatever. 

Is he bed-bound? Wheelchair? Can he transfer himself? Trying to understand what your options are. 

I had to touch my dad’s penis once to show his wife how to clean the catheter and he was so embarrassed. Ultimately, we bought a cheap bidet called Tushy and had it installed. That way he could sit on the toilet and he would have the water running just to cover the sound of him doing his business.
Changing a diaper for bed bound dementia patient that fights you is a whole other level of patience. My mother in law fights me sometimes and it’s a major stress event for her. I can only imagine the indignity and shame they feel, at least in some part, and the confusion as well. Being kind and explaining everything is important even if they may not seem to understand, and making sure there is comfort when moving them, but we can only do so much and it has to be done. One the other end of the spectrum, there are those that thoroughly enjoy being changed, rarely talked about, and it’s a whole other kind of nightmare.
I am so sorry you are going through that
I’d tell the supervisor that he has a problem with you and ask for reassignment. They aren’t rational so I don’t know what you can do to make them understand that you’re helping them. You and he would be happier not dealing with each other.
My dad was an enormous pain in the ass with me. He didn't think I was strong enough to move his fairly large body around and snapped at me. I stopped trying to soothe him and joked and talked a little shit and he calmed down. Didn't always work, but a lot of the time he would chill out.
Can you spend time at all discussing his past while not changing him?
I would recomment to find out more about his biography. Maybe you could find something he likes or an explenation why he reacts that way to you.
I suspect if the dementia wasn’t destroying his brain he would be horrified at his behavior.
He probably sees through you and knows you go out of your way to be a hater
I might try that, thanks 🙂
He is in hospice, due to advanced Alzheimer's. He sleeps most of the day, bed-bound, but he's still eating and drinking. There's no doubt in my mind that he's at least somewhat miserable, but he likes the other aides and smiles and cooperates for them. For me, he stiffens up and won't let me change him. It's much harder for me to do my job because he resists me touching him at all. Maybe it's because I wear a mask. My agency has never enforced mask wearing, until last week. Through this whole pandemic, none of his other aides have worn masks, but the hospice personnel does.
Thanks. I think maybe I'm acting a little too submissive. Then they think you aren't competent to help them. Better to joke around and keep it light but don't be shy.
I can try, although he doesn't seem to like talking about those things much now. we used to talk about his hobbies and his profession.
Yes of course he would be. But sadly, this is often the case with dementia.
[deleted]
I should add after reading more about your patient, my grandmother was miserable cuss, to put it politely. She lived with us and she hated all of us, especially my dad. He had to sneak around through the house to avoid her ire. He was the one that figured out the candy trick to distract her from being angry. A sweet tooth is super common with dementia, our care givers were not allowed to bring in any food or candy, but could offer anything that we had on hand in the house, so we kept a well stocked supply. Be prepared for regular complaints that the treat is not as good as ‘blank’ and saying he doesn’t like it, but if he gobbles it up while complaining, you’ve hit pay dirt. Kindness always works way better with dementia patients, it’s just a matter of finding the right button. My current ‘patient’ is my mother in law and she’s all about pastries.
Are the other aids male?   My Dad won’t allow a female aide to change or bathe him, only male aides.
Maybe try some funny masks over an N95 or whatever you wear? Throw on a short cape and you’re Wonder Woman. 

My aunt has bad Alzheimers and for reasons that mystify me, she is not DNR. She had a stroke last year and they did all the rehab and everything. 

My husband has early dementia and he can get so frustrated with me. I am not a good sleeper and I didn’t know how to take a screenshot on his phone, so I took it out of the room to screenshot some nasty texts from his ex so I could erase them from his phone. I returned to the bedroom and he was awake and angry that I had taken his phone. I explained why but it ended up being a 2 hour argument about many different things. I often have to just leave the room because there isn’t much point arguing with someone who has dementia.
Yes i’m sure of it, too!
Thanks, this is all very helpful.🙂
Several of the aides are male, yes. This may be a factor, thanks.
[deleted]
Aww look at that, a troll who can’t handle being trolled.
