Honestly it’s sucks, but you can’t force people to be decent. I (early 30’s) have an older sister (late 30’s) that lives at home and does nothing all day, while I probably talk more with my parents (both 66) everyday from 5 hours away. Luckily, your sister is only 23 and can still grow out of it. With the prevalent dementia in your family, I’d recommend you and other helpful sibling sitting down with your parents at some point to discuss advanced directives, long term care preferences, etc.
I'm a caregiving daughter to Asian parents too, so I really find this discussion interesting. 

- Why is your sister's schedule so busy? 

- How do your elders respond to her disregard? 

- Can you give examples of the boundaries you have with your mother and your sister? 

- It sounds like you care for your parents out of obligation/guilt, not sincere affection: true or false? 

I don't think you can force her to care. She has to come to that on her own. Given your mom seemed like not a great mother, I have a hard time faulting your sister for her disinterest. As the elder siblings, you've likely always bore most of the responsibility, while she's been free to live her own life. I have no real advice besides to threaten her with no more future financial support. Or buy into long term care now (or other health-related savings account), so all of her allowance now will be redistributed to your parent's future care. It's a shitty ultimatum, but if you feel certain that she won't pay in the future, you need to have something saved. Memory care is a long and expensive road.

Maybe find some aspect of the caretaking that she likes to do (cooking, grocery shopping, managing the doctors, entertaining), and accept that that's all she's willing to do. Once you lower your expectation, anything extra will feel like a bonus.
Good for your sister for escaping a narcissist mother. It’s for her own mental health.  Don’t shame her, you said yourself your mother is awful.  

Check out /r/raisedbynarcissists

Tons of people go full no contact just to stay sane.
TBH,  its not so surprising that your youngest sister doesn't seem to have a relationship with her mother.   I was raised by a narcissist, so I can just imagine what it was like being raised by a narcissistic tiger mom.  In my family hugs, kisses and any kind of emotional support were just not present, and that kind of childhood really messes with people's heads.   In fact, I have read where emotional neglect is just as damaging as physical or verbal abuse and could be the number one cause of CPTSD.

Not all children react the same way to situations as their siblings, maybe her personality is more sensitive than yours, and growing up in your household was just too hard on her.  Could it be that she never developed the same feelings of obligation that you and your other siblings have toward your mother?  Could it be that it's just too hard to be around your mother?  It was for me, so maybe that's how she is feeling. 

I guess I just wouldn't write her off as a horrible person because she could just be a person in terrible pain.

Edit:  I see from your post that your sister has a substance abuse problem. I think most people start to use and misuse substances because of the pain they can't stop or heal from. I should know three of my parent's four children have substance abuse issues, me included.  As an adult, you are definitely responsible for your own behavior but when you have experienced trauma, and until you are able to learn the skills and have the foundation necessary it can be really hard.
Im the youngest of 4. Me and the sibling just a little older than me take care of our parents. The second eldest chose to live 12 hrs away to care for her much more elderly father in law. And the eldest sibling lives closest to our parents and is fincially well off, but estranged from them and doesnt help with them at all. Forget an hourly dinner, they don't see eachother for Christmas dinner. 

But we are still incredibly close, despite that. Like, ridiculously close. Especially when you account for the 12 year age gap. Because his relationship with our parents has fuckall to do with our relationship with eachother. Everyone's first priority has to be their own emotional and physical well being. And sometimes their needs are different than you're own. And thats okay. 

Like, maybe you're able to compartmentalize and set boundaries in a way that your sister isn't. Maybe you're better able to deal with how scary it can be to watch someone die a bad death. Maybe she's afraid to help because she feels that you're all expecting her to do everything because she's closest - to handle all the emergencies because you can't get there as fast.  

>how do you deal with these types of siblings that refuse to lift a finger to help anyone else?

Is that a fair assessment of her? Or is she just unwilling or unable to help with your toxic parents and grandparents? Is she selfish or unkind with her friends? Is she unwilling to help you? 

Side note, 23 is not a full grown adult. You yourself are just *barely* finished maturing, if you even are. I think you could stand to be a little more... Realistic. Most 23 year olds aren't financially or emotionally equipped to care for themselves, let alone anyone else.
Adult children who don't help can sometimes be convinced to do something if they are made to feel needed and are asked to do something that calls upon their skills or attributes. Your anger is sooooo understandable, but if that sib does even a small thing, that's less on your plate. Use positive psychology. Good luck!
>For those of you as adult caring for your elderly parents, how do you deal with these types of siblings that refuse to lift a finger to help anyone else?

You stop being jealous and you move on with your life without her. Yes, you're jealous that she has chosen to take very little part in your family's life: you want to do the decent daughter thing, which is a role that is deeply expected of you, requires enormous sacrifice, but offers no reward other than "assuage guilt". You look over and your sister has zero guilt whatsoever: all of her time and energy can be spent on herself. You are a prisoner looking over at a free person outside of jail. 

Stop comparing yourself to her. Stop putting expectations on her. Stop trying to bring her to your level (whether up or down that is your decision).

When you grow up, and break free from the cycle of codependency, you'll have to come to realise that you **cannot make someone care about stuff they don't care about**. You can only do you, and you're only hurting yourself by murmuring "but they're supposed to...." | "but I sacrificed so much....." | "but it's not fair" on loop. If you don't, you will only be passing on narcissism to everyone in your circle. 

source: saw Asian mom with neurological disability to her end of life.
You can't force it.  And it's likely the non-contributing child is the favorite/golden child, and will likely get the bulk of the estate when the time comes.  It's just dysfunctional family dynamics.  There may even be pressure from your parents for you to "take care" of your younger sister by paying her bills going forwards -- No is a complete sentence.

That being said, 23 is still quite young- heck, 58/59 aren't that old (I'm 57).  You have time. 

So if your sister is unlikely to change, what can change?  Do you think your parents might be willing to move to senior housing closer to you after your grandmother passes?  My mom refused to move until dementia set in and we moved her to assisted living closer to where my sister and I live.  So it might be wise for you and your brother to make a plan and start communicating that your parents might like to move closer to where you live when they get older. 

I wish I could offer advice to help your sister understand she needs to step up, but I really doubt anything will work.  You'll have to find what works for you and go from there.
I am stunned that you are already putting guilt trips on your in-town sister over elder care for People who are 58 and 59! 

You and your brother are a nice safe 2.5 hours away. Far enough away that you can hardly be the "on call" person for emergencies. It sounds to me like you are pre-emptively trying to set your sister up for that role by laying the guilt on thick now. I'll be honest I think what you are trying to do is appalling. If you are so invested in your parents future elder care and feel adult children are the default elder care plan then you move back close to your parents. Let your sister move away and get her career going, how does that sound? Probably not too good since you currently have this practice when you don't want to deal with your narc mother: " then mute/block her cell for a few days"

SMH
I am so sorry that you are in this tough situation. I am in a similar situation and the one SIL who sucked the blood out of my PIL (for her entire life of over 50) refuses to help out Emotionally, Financially, Physically. The hardest part is that the situation drags on for Years or even for a Decade.

Fortunately, I am dealing with White people where you can say, this makes me/my entire family unhappy therefore I am Not going to see my MIL any more, and somehow it's acceptable...LOL...(I know this doesn't work in Asian family so I count myself very lucky). My good hubby will look in on her as much as he (a terribly wounded child by his mom) can stand it.

I don't see my MIL who is in the assisted living facility because she reminds me too much of the unfair situation we are in (and seeing all these Old folks in the assisted living facility makes me depressed as well), all 4 siblings were abused but Why is my family stuck with her?!

I also have cut off the communication with 2 siblings of my hubby who are acting like 13 years old going on 50.

Coming from similar culture, I completely understand that you can't do what I am doing. Being 23 is just a child, however, at that age, some are mature like you and some are still like 15. I am so sorry that you have to be the most mature person in the whole family...

The problem is that your younger sister could suck the money out of your parents for another 10-30 years (I pray that doesn't happen), and she could still refuse to look after your parents. That is the worst case scenario. This actually happened in our family.

You and your other sibling need to have the conversation and come to an agmt and then sit your sister's ass down and talk it out.... Helping your parents is difficult but having a sibling who is sucking money and refusing to help is Insult to the injury! You will be so mad that you will be driven to eventually cut the relationship off with her anyway so why not have a heart to heart talk first to see if you can put some sense into her?
Mom's 86 now.  I moved her to assisted living near me in November 2019.  She used to live 20 minutes from my sister, 250 miles away from me.  My brother is on the other coast.  

I was already overseeing Mom's finances.  Now I've added health and morale--which has been tough this past year.  

My brother is not a bad guy, but he's busy and fine not doing anything--he supports my efforts and if it came to a "vote," he'd back my decision no matter what.  

My sister kinda tried to help when Mom lived, but she's busy and has always been a narcissist (she finally realized that other people have problems, but they're not as important as *hers*).  So there's very little communication.  She can call Mom anytime she wants.  The only times she tends to initiate contact with me is to complain about something.  When Mom is gone and everything is over (burial, bills, taxes, any inheritance), I don't plan on ever communicating with her again, for any reason at all.
If i may ask, are you able to still have a good relationship with your sister?
Thank you so much for your reply!

She works a normal full-time job for the first time in her life, and hangs out with her boyfriend and friends a lot, no other commitments

My maternal grandma w dementia+cancer is to the point she hardly remembers my sister’s name to face versus ours, bc she sees her so infrequently, and my paternal grandma asks me sadly, why my sister never comes around with me and why I don’t ask her to come by (I had to beg her to see my paternal grandma at that point) 

Boundaries- in the past whenever she argued with my parents, I would defend her, or when she would come into my area I would treat her out to kbbq/buffets/whatever she liked (on a grad student stipend but I would always bite the bill), or ask me for expensive gifts every holiday. I’ve made it clear to my parents that my brother and I won’t be doing this any more, despite it being the expectation for us to ‘be there for her’, 
With my mom- I used to be able to talk to her daily but with menopause and being emotionally unstable the last year,balong with the stress of caring for grandma, she gets particularly snarky/rude spamming my phone with hurtful texts (you are bad children/ungrateful need to go to church, etc) , I tell her nicely she’s being inappropriate and disrupting my stressful work (in emergency response for COVID), then mute/block her cell for a few days, and call my dad to give him a heads up that she won’t be able to contact me, but for him to let me know if there is emergency that he can always call me directly 

That is great advice, thank you.
 She has not been willing to do anything at the moment to assist our grandma during several small emergencies/gaps in care the last few months- assist with groceries, dinners, or errands, or even tagging along for taking my grandma out. 

I know there is a lot of deep rooted trauma that we all will work through at our own pace, but it kills me a lot when both my parents and elders come to me asking for an explanation on my sister’s absent behavior. I used to cover for her/lie when she would literally be at her boyfriend’s or my ex m-aunt (that cheated on my mom’s brother, whole family drama)... but I cannot make excuses for her at this age
I get my mom is awful and I frequent the sub a lot. I’ll reconcile the fact that she will not assist my mom at all in her old age, it’s really difficult that my brother and I cannot even ask her to say Hi to my grandmothers every once in a while
Oh just want to clarify that was another commenter telling me about their sibling’s substance abuse problem.

Yes I understand that my mom is a pain to be around, but we asked her to drive over 15 minutes to sit with grandma (alone, not parents) for an hour, and she was pissed to tell us we were interrupting her baking and that she can’t be expected to help in emergencies when she has important plans scheduled
We aren’t asking her to care for our parents at this point at all. Nor expecting it

I was using the example of she refuses to see grandmas (who are harmless and raised us a long time) on their deathbeds, despite both grandmas begging me to ask her to see them.... and this really influences my relationship of how she would rather bake a pie, hangout with her boyfriend, etc instead pf driving 20 mins every once in a while to see my sick grandma

I forsee in the future she will continue to not want anything to do with helping my family/parents/grandparents but continue to come to my brother and I for financial assistance or any time she needs something
Thank you for your empathy and understanding on this. I love my sister and it hurts that despite the extravagant gifts, defending her over the years, and bailing her out with any emergency,  she turns her back on my brother and I when asking for her help once or twice
Thank you for the thoughtful reply! I have not thought about the second part but that is really important

My big brother has already made it clear that he will always be willing to help me with my parents and we will work something out for them, (though they have retirement saved up) but his dream is to move to CO or CA for a few years, which I fully support. He said even if he is far away he would do the best he could to help provide even at a distance. Very thankful for that.

For my sister, we ask her to do one or two small tasks less than once a month to no avail, so I think it would be best if we no longer ask her anything at all
[deleted]
*A relevant comment in this thread was deleted. You can read it below.*

----

I have mixed feelings about this comment. On the one hand I completely agree that younger sis should have individual agency re: care commitment/mental health. On the other hand I also understand the collectivist identity that is part of the fabric of asian-american families, which is both a strength and weakness.

The gentle reminder I have for OP (and her sister) is that every "no" is really a "yes" and vice versa. [[Continued...]](https://www.resavr.com/comment/relationships-with-your-adult-15918895)

----


*^The ^username ^of ^the ^original ^author ^has ^been ^hidden ^for ^their ^own ^privacy. ^If ^you ^are ^the ^original ^author ^of ^this ^comment ^and ^want ^it ^removed, ^please [^[Send ^this ^PM]](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose?to=resavr_bot&subject=remove&message=15918895)*
Sorry this was unclear, to clarify we are NOT asking her to take over ANY financial responsibilities, but to visit sick grandma and have a meal once or month or so bc she misses her. We are NOT expecting to contribute financially or go over every day to my parents/see my mom.

We are trying to reconcile with the fact that my brother and I will be on our own planning for my mom’s memory care in 10 years and know she wants nothing to do with it.

 Currently she has not come home in over 6 months to greet either elders (very huge in our culture) only at their begging me to ask her to visit them (these are my grandmas who also helped raise us, not my narcissistic mom)

At my mother’s worst, she once sent me over 100 text messages and 5 voicemails during work telling me over and over that I was stupid, ungrateful, and was not her child. I kindly told her to please stop as i broke down crying in the middle of the office with a breakdown. Blocking her number was the only way to stop the threatening messages that day and on. It sounds horrible but I really don’t have a solution or better way to deal with my mom’s ‘mood swings’ as we call it- What would you do in this situation after years of physical and verbal abuse?

Also to add- we did encourage her to job search closer to us for higher paying area and offered help to do so, but she did refuse that as well. We aren’t under any circumstances expecting her to give up her life or career at 23 to care full time for grandma or mom. We literally are asking her to come eat with us or hang out with grandma, when we are down there but she makes a huge deal out of it or refuses every time
Thank you for your understanding and thoughtful reply, and we have tried talking to her but she avoids the topic or ignores us for weeks. We will try sitting down again with her one on one at some point.
At this point no, after this past Thanksgiving I’ve cut off contact with her, but that’s probably more due to years of her substance abuse issues, repeated instances of my parents or I bailing her out, moving back to our parents house at 37 and trashing “her”room, acting like the perpetual victim, the list goes on. I knew a few years back that I’d be the one to take care of our parents and I’ve accepted that. Sorry for venting and going off topic a little there.
[deleted]
>I know there is a lot of deep rooted trauma that we all will work through at our own pace, but it kills me a lot when both my parents and elders come to me asking for an explanation on my sister’s absent behavior. I used to cover for her/lie when she would literally be at her boyfriend’s or my ex m-aunt (that cheated on my mom’s brother, whole family drama)... but I cannot make excuses for her at this age

I hope you realize that you aren't making excuses for your sister; youre making them for your parents. Lying about where she is doesn't protect her, it protects your mom.  Because the truth isn't 

>"she doesn't want to spend time with you bc she's selfish." 

The real truth is

>"she doesn't want to spend time with you because your shitty behaviour makes people not want to be around you. What part of 'you are bad children' is supposed to endear us to you? Your miserable behaviour has driven all of is away, to varying degrees."

You aren't making excuses for the 23 year old; youre making them for the 58 and 59 year old.

Is she even asking you to make excuses for her?
You're welcome. 

You have to love her for who she is, or equally, be upset with her and stop loving her because who she is. Currently you are trying to love her but you're really upset with her because she isn't who you think she should be. 

She would not have loved you any less for not providing her with expensive meals and gifts: her love for you might be thin and kind of hard to perceive, but it is not transactional. 

If you hadn't bailed her out, she would be able to find other resources, like friends or whatever, and she probably wouldn't have held it against you if you hadn't moved heave and earth for her. Again, not transactional. 

You have to realize that her evaluation mechanism isn't dependent upon debt. Yours is. "I owe my mother, hence I will bleed and die for her". That's you. You likely inherited the emotional blackmail that you yourself understand is unhealth. She's escaped this generational hell: "can I afford to do this without bleeding and dying. I cannot, so I won't." She has boundaries that she is maintaining, and it will greatly contribute to her success and happiness in life. She made it. 

I know I'm being really harsh. I have to tell you what many social workers told my family: you can only do what you can do, and the best way to take care of someone with long term needs is if YOU stay healthy too. 

Her being on her own for an hour isn't an emergency: yes she could fall or hurt herself and it can become an emergency, but the hour alone itself isn't. And you cannot pad someone who needs constant care with family hours. With 40 hour work weeks, plus breaks, there are more hours in a week than 4 full time employees can provide. If they are not already in long term care, they should well be. 

think long term solutions, not magic where she's got to make the same sacrifices as you. Sacrifices won't see the elderly to the end.
Sorry I don’t mean to sound like the gifts were expected anything $ in return- at the time she needed shoes, picked expensive ones and I told her don’t worry about buying me anything back, this was a need and I would support her best I can at the time and in times of need
 
I just feel like the best we supported my sister all these years she refuses to assist us with other things—my brother loaned her his car after totaling hers, and he asked her to get it inspected since it was expiring while she was driving it, instead she borrows it and parents just bought her new car, and she left the car 2.5 hours away letting it expire.... not even returning it yet nor paying him at all for any of the insurance the months she had it

I called her out on it that the least she could do was do what he had asked, instead of taking his car and not even returning it in time for inspection
Oh yikes...you have my heartfelt sympathy! It will take time but I sincerely hope and pray that this untenable situation will not rob too much of happiness from your life. (In situations like these, I think the kid who moves Far Far away from parents/toxic siblings always wins in life a long term)
Thank you so much for sharing your story ❤️ You sound like a really good older sibling for helping her all these years, and a lot more patient than I am
With her history of substance abuse,  she is not qualified to be the alert, responsible help you need.  I understand your anger and disappointment with her, but she is an untreated sick person who also needs help.  You have more than enough on your plate to add her, that's not my intention.   You're facing tough challenges with limited resources, and you will have to decide how to prioritize them.  Is there any help available through the social worker at the hospital?   I've had excellent experiences with hospice when the time comes.  Perhaps your local council on aging could assist?
Thank you for sharing, I appreciate the view point

I would like to clarify we do not * expect her to take over all the care alone for grandma OR my parents, but less than once a month to assist in emergency* to help watch her for an hour or two. We are NOT *expecting her to contribute financially to grandma’s care at this point, but just to drive 15 minutes over to their house to sit with her or share a meal with her occasionally (because my grandmas both straight requested to me her presence at meals occasionally and have asked why she won’t visit them)

My brother and I were doing 5 hour trips 4x a month to see our grandma and switch shifts, but when we asked her to reserve half a day or a few hours once a month, she consistently refuses.

I also am the only sibling that does stand up to my Nmom’s  (I tended to get beatings and a concussion once for it, growing up) , and yes I do call her out on why we are distant and can barely call her once a week nicely (until she starts insulting us over the phone)
Oh i’ve confronted both parents on that my mom’s behavior is the cause, to which I have gotten a lot of heat from them to put it lightly. 

I lied on her account a few times bc I wanted to save her from getting chewed out by my parents more the second she talks to them but i realize that wasn’t the right move either. I also am the only one who defended her in the past and intervened on her behalf when my mom was out of line, to also get in trouble with both my entire family for ‘disrespecting’ them
Grandma’s situation is a little difficult because we cannot leave her unsupervised for any second (she may wander off, leave the gas stove on, get lost walking away) all of which she has done in past

We typically have grandma in a nursing home closeby but due to a covid outbreak there and the risk to her, she is home with my parents which makes things difficult. Also my parents culturally will not allow any in-home care to help assist with grandma (despite wonderful advice on here that we look into it ASAP to help at home), but we are also afraid for the infection risk as she just finished chemo. my grandma’s relationship to my mom is quite difficult and she will flat out refuse to bathe/change sometimes without a yelling match. Versus for me and the other grandchildren, if we ask grandma nicely to get ready to bathe she will kindly oblige. So my brother and I going down gives my mom a rest occasionally, and we try to help when we can

My mom is in a similar situation where she is the only one who manages my grandma’s affairs and her siblings don’t assist either, financially or in person ever. My brother and I recognize this disparity and have agreed we will try to plan for this together as best we can in future for our mother- likely, she will be in memory care and she will not be able to safely live with us without constant supervision, nor be with our future children alone
[deleted]
You’re welcome :) hopefully it helps you out with your situation and good luck
What hospital?
Thanks for sharing this perspective and explaining, i’ve been really sad because often we try to baby her and spoil her bc she’s the younger one... but at this point my brother and I are burnt out, and sad she doesn’t care about helping our grandma 

Coming from a place where my parents expected me to essentially raise her, held me accountable for her actions and to do as much for her in their stead, it’s really difficult for me to reconcile this fact that I feel she really takes advantage of my brother and I in other situations, not just with the family ordeal

This is something I’ll continue to pursue in therapy and attempt to reconcile with
Sorry no hospital involved.   Try parent's doctor,  could get directions to resources for the aging there.
