This sounds very similar to what I first noticed in my husband. He wasn’t temperamental to begin with so when little agitations began popping up, they really stood out to me. The agitation, moodiness, slight memory issues (seeming to be more with things that he doesn’t really comprehend), inability to create and stick to a plan all worsened until it was hard to ignore. A few years ago, the doctor though he was likely depressed. Last year, I took him back and the doctor was able to see what I’d been seeing for a while. After a referral to a neurologist, we got a diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment of the frontotemporal lobes. He isn’t advanced enough yet to qualify as having frontotemporal dementia (FTD) but that’s coming. 

I’m not saying your dad has FTD. I am saying that changes in personality, increased agitation and outbursts, and impaired memory are things that need to be mentioned to his doctor. Perhaps it’s something that can be diagnosed and treated easily. If there is treatment available for whatever may be going on, you want him to have that treatment.
my dad has been doing the same a lot recently and he is 54 but i think a possibility could be that he is more stressed out especially with the current times we are in. a lot of factors could come in to play with the possibility of stress being the reason. it could also be just mental illness never diagnosed or realized. both me and my brother have been diagnosed with a variety of things but my father never has but probably does have something just never realized or even thought of having something. i think the possibility of dementia or alzheimers being the case at the moment is hardly likely
There are so many reasons this could be happening. Stress or any number of health issues that aren't dementia related. He needs to see a doctor, be honest with that doctor, and go from there. 

If it turns out that it's some sort of dementia, getting treatment to delay progress is important. Also, getting it through his head while he's still capable of comprehending it is very helpful. From my own experience with my mom, who stayed in denial that anything was wrong until a couple of months before she died, it'll make things easier... Not easy, but easier if he's not fighting you every step of the way.
