They have them for dogs, but I have not found them for people yet. My brother in law makes GPS trackers for wild animals, maybe he could hook you up.
Contact your areas Alzheimers .org or dementia .org, they know all the great info & resources & tips.  Often have 24/7 helplines, although I'm in Australia so I don't know about your place.  Best of luck!
My mom kept throwing away the wristband GPS and cellphone plan we got through Bayside. She always wore a watch, so we thought she'd adjust, but she hated it and refused to wear it . It made it really hard as we couldn't find it and are pretty sure it went into the curbside bin, and returning it with that missing wristband was costly. I think if we had to do it again, I'd just get Tile trackers and sew them into her shoes, pants, and jacket.
When I was looking these up I was told by a couple of professionals that these give a false sense of safety. My dad liked to walked off so we put bells on the door so we would know if he opened a door. We also did preventative measures like put those basic slide locks at the base of the doors that we nudged open with our foot but dad never noticed them.

But! For backup I heard placing the tracker in or on the shoe is the best. Alzheimer's patients rarely forget to put on their shoes.
We have a special watch which notifies of a fall and you can track GPS for my dad.
I think ours was called smartie watch
Hey there werent good gps trackers when i had dementia people in my family, but from what it looks now, if your step mom is not tech or english savvy (my mom also isnt) it may end up that you or someone else actually has to do the tracking if need be. You may also consider suggesting she  sew personal info tags into his clothes. My dad took off/broke anything extra on him and lost his shoes when he went off wandering. 

Edit: in the off chance hes used to carrying a smart phone on him all the time you could turn on the google maps gps feature in the phone. Then multiple ppl can see where he is. 

Also, am from hawaii, so i will share this additional info with you in case you find it useful: 

Alz assoc.
https://www.alz.org/hawaii - free support groups, education, also trying to pass legislation to create more support for Alzheimer's ppl, such as requiring dementia sensitive training to people like first responders, in situations where folks wander off.

Actually id call them and ask for recommendations or see if you could join one or all the support groups (all online in covid times) to ask for recommendations. This is because theres a chance that services that work in places elsewhere dont work as well in hawaii, especially if they live in a rural area. You might luck out and find someone that knows her area and knows of something that will def work. 

Gov help. 
https://health.hawaii.gov/eoa/
https://www.hawaiiadrc.org/site/459/hadssp.aspx
Also check out offices on aging by county. Available help varies by county.. Stuff like free adult daycare 1 or 2 days a week, or assistance one day a week for example but its different by county. This is an example for honolulu county: https://www.elderlyaffairs.com/

Legal help:
https://www.hawaii.edu/uhelp/publications.htm
https://www.hawaii.edu/uhelp/handbook.htm

Senior information anf assistance handbook for hawaii: https://www.elderlyaffairs.com/site/449/publications.aspx
Lists services including nonprofit and volunteer orgs. 

Im no pro but if you have any questions for dementia in hawaii feel free to ask.
Hey u/SlipperedHermit, 

I'm sorry to hear about your father-in-law. While I'm late to the discussion but maybe I can help. I work for a company which makes these sort of trackers. GPS tracking is definitely not a perfect solution, but it can be helpful as things progress. The one we make in the US might be a good fit for your family. The app is pretty straightforward and you can set up geofencing alerts (so if he wanders off, your mother-in-law will know)

I shared this already on another thread but I thought it fit here too. A few weeks back a customer sent us this story about finding her mom. 

Don't hesitate to reach out in DM if you've got any questions.

"It was an incredibly stressful day! My parents are very independent people. Our (my sisters and I) original intent in purchasing the gps device was for peace of mind for us. My sisters and I all live outside of our home state. We wanted to make sure my mom never became lost when driving. She is becoming a bit more forgetful than we are comfortable with and is not a cellphone user. We placed the GPS in the glove compartment of my parent's car. My older sister linked it to her phone. One day, my mom had been gone most of the morning. My sister, out of state, looked on the GPS app and saw that she was not just far from home, but heading towards the neighboring state! My sisters, father and I did a group FT and decided we needed to call state troopers to locate and stop the car. With the help of your device my sister was able to give the troopers specific enough information that the vehicle was found within a half hour! And this is with the car driving on a freeway! The trooper called and let us know when he found her and was safe. My father rented a car to pick her up and the first thing she said was "" How did you find me""? She was absolutely stunned, surprised and grateful we found her. We hate to even think how our story would have ended had we not purchased your GPS. Happy endings indeed! It really worked perfectly! Seriously, we have been singing the praises of your company ever since. We give it an 11/10. 🙏😃”


-Matt from Invoxia
Does she reliably carry a phone? I was looking into Tile for the same thing a little while ago and they track location based on the phones location, so they just give the last location it was able to sync with the phone. Unless they have new products now? My dad was never able to get the hang of smart phones and now he won't take his normal phone with him even most of the time so the Tile didn't work out. I've struggled to find something that he'll keep on him.
No, but what Tile support suggested is that we could install the app on our phone and see last known location. In the end, we didn't bother. She became paranoid that a neighbor was trying to kill her and didn't want to be in her house. We moved her into assisted living and quickly that changed to a lockdown Alzheimer's community as she escaped too many times.
