It sounds like you are doing all the right things. I would add that I have a washable pad on the bed so I do not have to change the whole bed in the middle of the night in case of an accident. Also I have disposable pee pads I use on chairs if things get bad. I am also getting bidet toilet seat installed because reaching back there can be hard as you age. Also I have many urinals by the bed saving trips to the bathroom in the night.
You’re doing great! I only have a PSA- flushable wipes are not truly flushable, no matter what they say, so be careful. Especially with someone who may not understand potential consequences, you could easily end up with a plumbing nightmare. If he uses the toilet unsupervised, you might get a diaper genie or trash can with a reminder note to put them in there instead.
Stick to Name brand Depends and use extra inserts. Could have PT / hoke health work with him too.
I agree with a previous poster, flushable wipes aren't flushable. I learned this lesson after an $800 plumbing bill. 

I do put multiple disposable pads in my Moms bed and chair, to catch all accidents.

We have a handheld travel bidet that hikers use.

Im my experience it will only get worse, not improve.
While awake you can help him get to the commode or a bedside commode every few hours. Plus assure he is clean to avoid skin breakdown. Vaseline is good as a protective barrier. You may need to learn how to put a diaper on and off of him while in bed. Not a pull up pantie. A drawsheet under him but under it something to protect the sheet from wetness. And a disposable or washable pad under him. A mattress protector that is not plastic but can stop wetness bleeding through. I have seen large trash bags cut to fit to go under a drawsheet. Any smell can be helped by you lighting a match. Google how to do transfers safely for you with him. Wear gloves and learn how to properly put on and take off. Very likely he needs help wiping himself now. Start with toilet paper and if you need to clean more, soap and water. One wash cloth to soap up and warm water.  Fresh warm water and another wash cloth to rinse. It can be done by helping him stand to clean him. Dish pans are good to use for sponge bathing. Those who said keep chairs etc covered with incontinent pads are totally correct. No towel to protect furniture. A flat sheet can be used as a drawsheet. Better to remove it and replace with a fresh one than strip the whole bed. That is where something to not allow wetness to get to the fitted will help loads. An old shower cut cut to fit. And try to keep what is under him not bunched up as as wrinkle free as possible.
Have you tried kegel or pelvic floor exercises? I’m just brainstorming, bc this is not an issue for my husband. But the sphincter is a muscle, so perhaps some squeezes and tightening like two minutes every hour- or whatever. My husbands physical therapist has him sit on a large exercise ball and rotate his hips for a balance exercise, but I was thinking it would be great to incorporate pelvic floor type stuff.

Edit: Also, another thought- make sure he has fiber like psyllium husk caps daily and keep to a routine for bowel movements. This helped normalize our lives.
Thank you so much, this is very insightful! I appreciate hearing your experience.
FWIW I would like someone to reassure me that flushable wipes are the bad ones. I've never heard of any plumber testing them. Cleaning wipes and baby wipes should not be flushed and look similar, and I'm sure people 'accidentally' flush them. {Please forgive me for the rant. This is a thing with me.} :)
Thank you for the heads up! A diaper genie is a great idea!!
A vinyl table cloth works well on the bed. They are relatively inexpensive, waterproof, have a "flanel" backing to keep from sleeping on plastic.
Thank you for the suggestion! We do a few types of balancing exercises but that does sound like a no-brainer. Its sometimes difficult to teach him if the exercise is hard to demonstrate myself, but its worth a shot. Also will try the psyllium husk caps!
Psillium is a good suggestion! Just started using this and I notice a difference. I mix the powder in with oatmeal or smoothies. Thickens water to make swallowing easier, too.
Haha no worries. It’s just from what I’ve read in researching home improvement issues (I’m our family handyman 😋 and confirmed by a plumber friend of mine. Apparently they tend to not truly dissolve and get caught up along the way. The one brand I ever tried that definitely dissolved immediately was so thin and easily torn up it was useless as a wipe. Here are a couple articles that give the gist: 

https://www.nbcdfw.com/news/consumer-reports/consumer-reports-are-flushable-wipes-flushable/1937791/

https://dnplumb.com/are-flushable-wipes-bad-for-your-plumbing/
You’re right, even wipes marketed as flushable should not be flushed
Yes, flannel backing with a drawsheet over it what with the plastic side down of the table cloth would work well. I will keep that in mind. I learned something in every home I worked and love knowing more.
Good luck!
