It sounds like taking her to the neurologist would be the most beneficial thing to do. Someone else here may have advice on how to get someone cognizant to do that (I’m not sure how lucid she is), it will probably involve lying to your mother either way. Perhaps set the appointment day saying it’s just a wellness visit. They can give her medication to calm her, and make a formal diagnosis. It’s not really important that she accepts she has dementia, just that a diagnosis is made which will help your family prepare for the future. I don’t know what you mean by phase. If it’s dementia she could remain that way for the rest of her life, it could get better and she will become more lucid, it could worsen, or more than likely it seems she will cycle through those. As for your father it seems as if  support is needed to give him time in the form of an in home care worker, and he would benefit from dementia education about behavior, stages, coping.
Chances are if she's to the point of repetitive questions, she's not going to be able to retain the knowledge that she has dementia. My suggestion would be to arrange for your dad to get a break several times a week. If there's one available, maybe even a support group; it can help him feel less alone and maybe give him some tools to help deal with her as she progresses, as well as give him somewhere to vent.  If he's resistant, it may be time to start looking into a facility for your mom, for her safety and his sanity.
I don’t know if this would work but I find taking care of my husband is like taking care of a child. Maybe if your father said “let’s have quiet time for the next 15 minutes” or whatever, she might be able to assimilate that. 

Are there other people she can talk to? Women friends, maybe? Definitely try to spread the load of her needs amongst more than your dad.
My mum with dementia (82) lives with her controlling husband (87) who she used to care for. Although help was hugely resisted by him and there was lots of unnecessary drama, a carer now goes in to the home three hours daily which gives him a break and mum some companionship other than his miserable self. Mum and carer go for walks, play dominoes and other light activities which distract her from obsessions and direct her energies into something uplifting.  We pay for this with only small financial support from the govt. 
Dementia is a difficult and unpredictable disease and manifests in different ways at different times of the day and night. A structured day has helped our situation, all agreed between us and helps the day move positively, things to look forward to. 

My sister and I take it in turns to video call every evening at 6pm for 20 mins which Mum finds very uplifting and it allows us to check that things really are going ok. I don’t have all the answers but we have had to think outside the box and come up with ideas that help mum whilst protecting us daughters from taking on responsibilities that we can’t handle. If it was mum alone she would be living with my sister’s family but including her husband would be impossibly difficult.
What if you bring in home care to help your dad?  Basically lie to her and say they are for him when they’re really for her. Since she is used to him being the one with needs it might make sense for him to need care. Then they can help her since they are there anyways. 

Talk to the social services department in your area and see what resources can be offered. A lot of things are pro rated based on income 

Also see if there is a local Alzheimers Society. They are a wealth of tips and tricks
Selective use of ear plugs - like if he's off in a room doing some hobby for a while.
Does she see a doctor? My dad began taking an antidepressent that has made him less aggitated, and therefore it was calming for the whole family.
It’s hell my mother doesn’t talk or move hang strong it’s so sad and hopeless and I feel overwhelmed but there will be better days
Based on the other responses it sounds like a second opinion is in order. Perhaps seeing a gerontologist would be more helpful. You should definitely try to attend and confirm that labs, radiology studies, and mental status exams have been done.
I'm not sure if this is possible, but for your dad's own mental health it may be time to find a memory care facility for your mom.  Living with that kind of stress is really hard on your body.  Your mom would probably be just as happy and then your dad can visit when he wants.
Thanks you for responding. She has been to the neurologist but she comes back and says they say nothing is wrong but my dad is there too and of course says the neurologist says she has some sort of dementia. My dad is an alcoholic on 100% disability for PTSD from Vietnam. I am afraid he will go back to drinking because he is scared of hurting her feelings. She has stuck by him through so much. I am empathetic but I am also kind of annoyed that he is talking about leaving because she is too much. 

Sorry, went off topic a bit there but I am also military stationed away from my family and I feel like I am expected to give up what I have worked for 18 years to come take care of my mom.
I am going to talk to my brother about getting dad a break, whether my siblings take mom a couple times a week or we hire professional help.
Appreciate the recommendations, maybe I will FaceTime with her tonight!
Great recommendation, did not even consider that spin.
She does see a doctor but they are just following her progression. Guess there is really nothing to do to help the dementia, haven’t asked if dad has asked about options for the other symptoms.
I hate knowing that her live is just confusion and being scared. I hate not being able to make her happy.
Thank you! I am going to suggest that to my dad.
You’re probably right, I am not sure she would even realize she wasn’t in her own home.
I’m so very sorry to hear all of that, your family has already been through a lot. The neurologist can be a hurdle in itself. I know not everyone has this option, but getting a second opinion may be helpful as the current doctor doesn’t seem proactive. Dementia is hard to deal with if you’re sober, even tempered, and have the money to be home all the time, so your father is more than likely going to find all of this more difficult than most. I’m going to say something I can’t tell whether it controversial on this sub or not- you are under no obligation to quit your life to become a caretaker, and I hope no one pressures you to do so. Perhaps your mother would be ok in a nursing home where your father can visit frequently and she has more stimulation? Or in home care where he’s not really having to deal with her needs most of the day. It really falls on your dad to adult up and make these decisions, but you can do the research to guide him since he kinda seems to be looking for a way out rather than through (it’s all very hard I hold no judgment in that). Also, thank you for your service.
There is also respite care, free and available in the US, tell your brother to seek out through local social service agency or Office for the Aging!
Agreed on respite care comments. Since you said 100% ptsd disability, I’m assuming VA. They have respite benefits.
I know your pain your not alone and I just want her to have no pain physical or emotional talk about stress
I will definitely look into what dad rates from the VA.
Right!? I watched my grandma go through this and now I know why it hurt my mom so much to watch her suffer and why my mom devoted so much to making her comfortable.
God speed my friend
