My grandma has dreams where she sees her deceased parents/ spouse saying she thinks she is meant to go with them. She has been living for at least a year and half since the first time she said to us. I don’t personally think it holds any credence to closeness to death or not. I think they have trouble distinguishing dream from reality. I’m sure many people dream about loved ones who have passed in this way, process it as a nice dream they had, then move on. People with dementia can’t process that way.
[deleted]
It might just be the dementia or how her subconscious is coping with her condition. If she doesn't have other health conditions that can cause death (e.g. heart disease, diabetes, cancer) and she still has enough speech to tell you about her hallucinations, she probably isn't approaching death - at least not due to her dementia.

I only have limited experience from half a dozen or so elderly deaths & only one of them knew approximately when she was going to die - and she didn't have dementia. The others either never realized or didn't realize it was time until they were well into active dying. 

I'd recommend reading up on the stages of pre-active & active dying - both for people with dementia and without. If you notice that some of the other things are happening, that would be a better indicator of whether or not this is nearing the end or just dementia-hallucination.
About a month before my mom died my dad started visiting her in the nursing home and working on her wheelchair for her. Doesn't sound like such a big deal but he'd been dead for almost 10 years at the time so it was pretty impressive. The morning she died he was in the bathroom of her room, she kept talking to him like there was a conversation going on. I don't know whether he was coming to get her or her brain knew what was coming and was comforting her with hallucinations of the love of her life but she was calm and happy.
my grandma (99) has been talking to dead relatives who are coming to get her for about 7 years now, if that's any comfort.  my personal belief is because she gets frustrated in her situation and is fantasizing and hallucinating about an escape from it.
I kinda hope it's true - not because it would mean your grandma is near death, but I would like to think my mom won't be alone when it happens. It would comfort me to think of her loved ones waiting for her and welcoming her over.
My MIL has been saying this for *years*.  I mean, she's 93 so yes, she's not going to last for decades but I wouldn't take this as a prediction.
Thank you, everything was making me believe we had only a few weeks with her. This will give my family some peace of mind.
I’m so sorry for your loss and thank you for sharing with me. 

My mom told my grandma’s doctor about it and the docs eyes got real big too... but she didn’t elaborate. What also has us worried is that both times that shes been beckoned to go, she has also wished that she would just die or be dead. Whatever happens will happen in time, I’m just glad i have others to discuss this with, thank you
We were similarly very worried the first few times grandma said it too. You’re not alone in that. I can’t speak to how long she’ll actually live of course I’m not her doctor, but as long as she’s healthy otherwise and the dreams aren’t causing her distress, I don’t think there’s a reason to worry.
