I think this is a great idea! What about also adding people who do estate sales or consignment or professional organizers or something along those lines? Just because many older people seem to have a hard time getting rid of things, even if they don’t use them. I only thought of it because I’m currently going through this with my mom, who’s 74, lives alone, and desperately needs to downsize.
Ugh there's so much tech stuff that could make caring for the elderly so much easier. I'd LOVE to be able to remote access my grandmother's TV so that I could change the channel for her and turn the TV on and off for her at certain times. My grandmother has parkinsons so like no, she cannot browse through tivo to put her show on -- but I can. If this is in your tech wheelhouse, I think it would be an amazing addition that would help out a lot of us.
I like it. There is a lot to know when dealing with aging.
Fantastic idea! My husband and I are starting to realize how hard it will be as our parents decline.
I love this idea! 

I also wonder if anything could be incorporated to help lonely seniors connect? I've thought about starting a Meet Up in my area for people to bring elderly loved ones to meet and greet parties, but then covid came. Still, I think isolation of the elderly is a big problem, and not many solutions.
This is a fantastic idea! It seems like there is information all over the place but nothing centrally located. Wonder if AARP has anything like this? I’m not old enough for membership but I know they are huge and have a lot of resources for their members. There are so many of us younger people helping out our older parents and it seems like there is a lack of information but maybe it’s there and we just aren’t seeing it because we’re not in the age range marketers are targeting to?
Update: It's OP here. Surprised by all the enthusiasm! If you'd like to share your story with me and my friend Jane, who's going to help me figure out if this idea has legs, let us know [here](https://airtable.com/shrVEetQJSGVUlNDL).
I’d also add grief counseling. Elders who have to move into assisted living have feelings of loss and abandonment and go through stages of grief.
There's a lot of content out there already. I think the first step would be to consolidate the videos and make them searchable. Then once you have an established foundation, verify users to upload their own videos. This step is important to keep the essential oil people off your platform. Then you get to deal with the nightmare that is known as the comment section. Mods will be a must. 

Just a few thoughts off the top of my head.
Greatly needed. I fell into helping my parents with Life then when Mom passed it was caring for my deteriorating Dad. I was not ready or wise. We, as a society, dont prepare or educate on aging. There is much that can be done to prepare and manage care. Age proofing the home, finances, medical care etc. And prep and planning cant starte arly enough. One of my dad's PT said she and her husband were building a home which also planned for their elder years.

Go for it, best of luck.
I think it's a really intriguing idea! I can think of three things that might be potential issues/need to be addressed. 

First, not every caregiver cares for an elderly person. And elderly people and younger people often have different diseases. Like, I'm sure caring for an 85 year old with dementia is quit different to caring for a 45 year old with ALS. There's definitely overlap, but the things that people really need - like those specific issues that arent obvious or easily addressed - might be easier to deal with if you categorize them. Divide and conquer, as it were. Maybe going a lot more specific might be an easier place to start. Maybe, like, "Eldercare Masterclass" or something like that. If done one for, like, younger people who have a caregiver, it might be cool to gear it towards both of them. If there's accessibility and mobility stuff, my dad would want to listen to it himself and delve into all the potential options. Since he's the one using it, it makes sense. I could see newly diagnosed people turning to a resource like that to get ideas about helpful stuff for the future so they're prepared. 


The second thing is also logistical. So much stuff varies by country, state, even probably within a single state. I think that might make a lot of the info difficult to nail down. And if you just go very broadly true, it's the same problem as the first point - not sure how helpful it is when it doesn't address what you're struggling with. I'd be a little frustrated if I got a masterclass to help me figure things out only for a good chunk of the information I really want to know to be brushed over with "this varies by location, talk to x, y, z." If I felt like I had to do a bunch of research and figure it all out on my own anyway, it might feel like more of time waste. 

I have no idea how you might solve this one. Maybe just... Not delve too deeply into the technical things that do vary by location?

And the third thing is more practical and superficial - my mom doesn't have time to take a class and be my dad's caregiver at the same time. So the idea of a "class", specifically, would be totally overwhelming to her, I suspect. It sounds like something that will make more work for her, rather than less. Maybe making it a podcast might be a little more user friendly. Or an 'audiobook' where each chapter is a new topic. That way people could jump around, listen to what they need to when they have time, just have it fit easily into their day. Or even an app, maybe, that has resources, episodes, checklists, etc, all on one place? That might be cool. 

I hope this doesn't sounds morbid or offend anyone, but I personally think it would be amazing if there was a section about the practical side of dying and death. I don't want to be googling who I need to call when a loved one dies expectedly while I'm in the midst of dealing with it. Help navigating the funeral industry and even just explaining what all the options are, as well as general pricing, would be good. 

One example i know off the top of my head (bc it's something we have been looking into) is you can decide to donate organs after someone passes, but you absolutely cannot just suddenly donate a body to science after they die. That has to be planned *well* in advance. Things have to be coordinated between the hospital and the research place. It's not a box you check after death, which is what we thought. Like, there'd be a form for organs and a form for science. Nope! If your loved one has expressed an interest in this, you really need to start doing research and arranging things as soon as you can. Its so complicated and I literally had zero idea it would be. 

I hope this all comes across as constructive rather than critical! I think the idea is fabulous, which is why i bothered thinking it through so much. Not trying to poo poo it *at all*. Its shocking how little organization and hand holding there is when dealing with stuff like this. Any helpful resources are worth their weight in gold.
One more idea - I’m a personal trainer specialized in older adults. Many with chronic disease. So many people do not plan ahead in this area either. If you want to stay independent, and maintain quality of life as long as possible, you must move your body! 
The number one reason people lose independence is loss of muscle mass. 
Your health is an investment not an expense.
That "MasterClass" should be for tech entrepreneurs also! The market for senior citizens is grossly underserved. They're not shopping for the cheapest deal.

A 90-year-old friend who has been quite a miser since he and my father were in college in 1950, has macular degeneration. I tried to set up a large tablet to help him, but his eyesight was failing faster than I could make progress, so I found someone who had already made a device. Cost was about $5k per unit. He bought it immediately!

If you market a device that purports to diagnose or cure something, you'll be dealing with the FDA; you do not want that headache. But if your device is assistive, then you will have a market. Just need to be careful of the minefield of patents. Lots of patents for devices that nobody actually made.
I’d take it! Great idea
I’m taking a caregivers class through our local senior services center. I was skeptical but it has helped a ton to understand dementia, what my mom is experiencing, and how to help her while not losing control of myself. But there’s so much more I’m struggling with. I’m in constant search mode for what can help us. I’d welcome something like this for sure.
Great idea! I’ve been caretaking my mom for six years with only 2 vacation breaks. I would definitely love a resource center. My mom and I took care of my dad with Alzheimer’s until he passed. Caring. For someone with memory issues is SO much harder. Even with two of us it was non stop care. Broke my heart...I admire you. My mom is 95 so she didn’t need help until she was 90, so it’s very admirable what you are doing. My mom has full mental capacity but her body is failing, so I’m trying to keep her healthy and comfortable.
Yes!! Love this idea!  I’ve been thinking that it would be nice if there was some kind of guidance for people to learn how to navigate (emotionally, mentally, “system” insurance, options, etc) when caring for an aging population.  I have no idea what to do or when to do it. There’s that delicate balance of preserving their independence vs stepping in and starting to steer the ship. Does that make sense? I just wish there was something to help guide difficult conversations, etc. 

Like, I’d love for my father to see a gerontologist (is that what they are called?), but I really would like to have a pre-appointment to chat with a doc privately about my concerns. But heck, I’m sure insurance won’t cover that, and would a doc even be up for that?

Hang in there everyone!
Absolutely,  there are so many free resources that people do not know about.
I love that idea. I had thought about adding senior move coordinators and professional organizers – professionals who help people downsize. There aren't many of them, but some of they are so talented and so helpful and could for sure share best practices.

My aunt and best friend did most of the cleaning out of my mom's place for me. I couldn't handle making decision after decision about what to keep. So stressful.

(P.S. Just sent you a chat/message, too!)
Love this idea. I think that's a little outside my wheelhouse, but I could definitely see producing some videos that have a "tech support" angle with some simple best practices and product reviews. I've seen some super crafty stuff in the caregiver groups I'm in on Facebook.

(P.S. Just sent you a chat/message, too!)
There are so many tech challenges. The remote TV thing would be useful. I constantly struggle trying to remotely support my dad. Our biggest challenge is managing online/internet things. The nest thermostat is great for that. While I can remote in and help on the computer, he has the ability to use the internet and email etc. on his own. We’ve narrowly averted financial disaster via scammers several times.  Someone needs to come up with a set of “elder” controls that allow a “guardian” to vet emails, purchases, social media, websites,
OP here! Update: I'm going to make this idea a real thing. Sign up at [quiltcanhelp.com](https://quiltcanhelp.com).
OP here! Update: I'm going to make this idea a real thing. Sign up at [quiltcanhelp.com](https://quiltcanhelp.com).
OP here! Update: I'm going to make this idea a real thing. Sign up at [quiltcanhelp.com](https://quiltcanhelp.com).
I'd love to incorporate something like that. One thought I had is that by making the videos warm and comfortable, I could help a little with caregiver isolation to start.

If you'd like to share your story (including by using a pseudonym) in a short phone conversation with me and my friend Jane, who's going to help me figure out if this idea has legs, let us know [here](https://airtable.com/shrVEetQJSGVUlNDL).
OP here! Update: I'm going to make this idea a real thing. Sign up at [quiltcanhelp.com](https://quiltcanhelp.com).
Totally, totally agree. AARP definitely has a lot of content (and even some videos) but none like the ones I'm imagining. I found [these](https://www.aarp.org/ppi/initiatives/home-alone-alliance/family-caregiving-videos/) the other day and think they're pretty good but you've already had to figure soooo much out on your own by the time you need to know how to use a specific piece of medical equipment. (Like, say, how to purchase it and who will pay for it!)

(P.S. Just sent you a chat/message, too!)
OP here! Update: I'm going to make this idea a real thing. Sign up at [quiltcanhelp.com](https://quiltcanhelp.com).
I love this idea. Totally agree. Grief counselors are the exact kind of professional that everyone could benefit from but too few people know about or can afford.

(P.S. Just sent you a chat/message, too.)
OP here! Update: I'm going to make this idea a real thing. Sign up at [quiltcanhelp.com](https://quiltcanhelp.com).
OP here! Update: I'm going to make this idea a real thing. Sign up at [quiltcanhelp.com](https://quiltcanhelp.com).
Thank you. I can't agree more with all of this. If you're up for sharing your caregiving story with me and my friend Jane, who's going to help me figure out if this idea has legs (!), do let us know [here](https://airtable.com/shrVEetQJSGVUlNDL).
Yeah. Hospice, dying and death would be ”great” crash courses. Even as a caregiver you can find yourself suddenly in new and deep waters. Even small tips, like “get a baby monitor so you can leave the room for a minute or two to go to the bathroom” are priceless.
Wow, wow! I wish I could upvote this multiple times. (Surely others will help with this.)

Thank you so much for these detailed thoughts and ideas. I love them and have come to versions of many of them on my own already. Examples: I will absolutely tread lightly on the concept of a class, and I agree that it's important not to leave people hanging with more work to do to figure out whether something varies at the state or county level.

I just sent you a message/chat, too. Would love to talk a little more.
OP here! Update: I'm going to make this idea a real thing. Sign up at [quiltcanhelp.com](https://quiltcanhelp.com).
Absolutely. There's actually a startup in that space that I love called Age Bold. They're partnering with insurance companies to offer simple exercises that reduce falls.
OP here! Update: I'm going to make this idea a real thing. Sign up at [quiltcanhelp.com](https://quiltcanhelp.com).
OP here! Update: I'm going to make this idea a real thing. Sign up at [quiltcanhelp.com](https://quiltcanhelp.com).
I'm so glad you found that class, but I can imagine how it's much more narrow than it needs to be – and I'm so sorry about your mom's illness. If you're up for sharing your caregiving story with me and my friend Jane, who's going to help me figure out if this idea has legs (!), do let us know [here](https://airtable.com/shrVEetQJSGVUlNDL).
OP here! Update: I'm going to make this idea a real thing. Sign up at [quiltcanhelp.com](https://quiltcanhelp.com).
That's very kind of you. I admire you, too! And I'm so sorry about your mom's mobility limitations. It's all hard in its own way, I think. If you're up for sharing your caregiving story with me and my friend Jane, who's going to help me figure out if this idea has legs (!), do let us know [here](https://airtable.com/shrVEetQJSGVUlNDL). I'd love to understand what it's been like for you.
OP here! Update: I'm going to make this idea a real thing. Sign up at [quiltcanhelp.com](https://quiltcanhelp.com).
OP here! Update: I'm going to make this idea a real thing. Sign up at [quiltcanhelp.com](https://quiltcanhelp.com).
I love this comment so much. Thank you for it. These are exactly the right kinds of topics framed in exactly the right kinds of ways.

If you're up for sharing your caregiving story with me and my friend Jane, who's going to help me figure out if this idea has legs (!), send me a message or let us know [here](https://airtable.com/shrVEetQJSGVUlNDL).

And to answer your question: A gerontologist is like a primary care doctor who works only with older adults, and you can absolutely proactively share information with his doctor, whether or not he's a gerontologist. You may have heard of a law called HIPAA, but that only covers what a doctor can tell you – not what you can tell a doctor. I've had success faxing, emailing, or hand-delivering a short, bullet-pointed list that can be slipped into my mom's file and skimmed by the doctor ahead of an appointment.
OP here! Update: I'm going to make this idea a real thing. Sign up at [quiltcanhelp.com](https://quiltcanhelp.com).
Love it. If you'd like to share your story (including by using a pseudonym) in a short phone conversation with me and my friend Jane, who's going to help me figure out if this idea has legs, let us know [here](https://airtable.com/shrVEetQJSGVUlNDL).
OP here! Update: I'm going to make this idea a real thing. Sign up at [quiltcanhelp.com](https://quiltcanhelp.com).
OP here! Update: I'm going to make this idea a real thing. Sign up at [quiltcanhelp.com](https://quiltcanhelp.com).
YES
Thanks!!
THANK YOU
 Tell ya what, i'll just lend a bit of direction. There are many who like me arent trained and wont be formally trained and have no idea coming in what they will face. There are many hard learned lessons that can be avoided or eased beforehand. 
medical...knowing basics like signs of stroke etc. basic first aid and have a kit in house. Doctors setup.
Financial...bills on auto-pay, have passwords to everything and internet access. Keep it in a book, keep a copy. Know what they have and what they can do. Lessen the chances of financial mishaps.
POAs both medical and financial. get em and get copies made. If they so desire a DNR order, keep on file at doctors, hospital, on you and them and in the car. 

Give them basics of dementia and alzh etc, personality changes and odd behaviour. Proper use of meds is crucial. If elderly misuse their meds or mis take them it can be bad. 
How to deal with Insurance and medicare etc. List of resources and forums. How to deal with doctors offices.
Things that could and should be done to help, may need to consult doctor first. exercise, braingames, dexterity and co ordination. Fresh air and sunshine. 
Things like why does he/she just sit in a dark room and stare at the tv? Why do they sleep all day? Explain in general terms why they may be doing the behavior thats concerning. What are warning signs? When is helping too much...too much? Allowing them dignity even if theyre struggling. Understanding they dont want to seem an invalid or helpless. 

the more people know the better they can deal with caring and the better care they can give. For all the family who are doing this it can become difficult and overwhelming. they must remember that this doesnt define them and they do have a life beyond it. If they can find help do so. When you're the one in the family caring for the elderly parent while other family members just ignore the situation....utter bullshit. 
In any case, this would be of great value and I wish you all success.
Oh that's really clever.
Thank you for the award, kind stranger!  It's my first award, I think! And it's so appreciated. If you're up for sharing your caregiving story with me and my friend Jane, who's going to help me figure out if this idea has legs (!), do let us know [here](https://airtable.com/shrVEetQJSGVUlNDL).
I just looked it up. It seems to be another app or program you join to gain access to group exercise online. Nothing special. 
I’m talking about specialized personalized programs that are geared toward people with knee replacements, hip replacements, Parkinson’s, MS, diabetes, and other ailments common to seniors.  A group class has too much to take into consideration and isn’t good for everyone.
I signed up
I’m in!
Very exciting!! Just signed up!! Thank you!!! ❤️

Can you confirm that you received my sign up request? Was going to PM you to ask but doesn’t look like I can do that.
Way to go!!!
I filled it out yesterday.
OP here! Update: I'm going to make this idea a real thing. Sign up at [quiltcanhelp.com](https://quiltcanhelp.com).
Sounds awesome, im in. 

also,

How to deal with the Pharmacy. What to do if the script has no more refills, how to make sure the doc is filling it properly according to how they want it taken.

How to deal with Medicare, how to read statements and the website.

Reccomend people keep a notebook of medical care. Bills may come months later so is good to keep track, visit-paid going in? bill amt. when paid and amt. Keep a file of all pepertrails.
