Don't try and reason with someone with dementia. Everybody loses. [This lady's channel helped me](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ymp2SgFhNtw).
This is real! Turn your way of thinking upside down and back to front and see this as she sees it. This is real! Totally real to her and she is living this! Please don't distress yourself trying to explain because as someone else said - no one wins that game. So take her reality and work with it. Reassure her the appointment has been made then divert her. If she says why haven't I been? Say the appointment has been postponed for a week or two but her bloods are fine. Its not lying as such its what you have to learn to do - divert, prevaricate, stretch your truth. I cannot paste it here but this helps
1 Agree, never argue.
2 divert, never reason
3 distract, never shame
4 reassure, never lecture
5 reminisce, never say "remember"
6 repeat, never say I told you 
7 do what they can do, never say you can't
8 ask, never demand
9 encourage, never condescending
10 reinforce, never force
Plus my ultimate rule for all of us carers and family - Look after number 1 because if you collapse then who will look after numbers 2, 3 and more?
Its notneasy but when you remember that you are dealing with HER reality it makes it easier.
Why not try buying her some baby dolls, clothes, some diapers and bottles? I’ve seen videos of women with dementia “taking care of their babies.”
Maybe get a pregnancy test and test her?  Video the results?
What if she is feeling changes in her body, and misinterpreting them as being pregnant? Would it be worth it to take her to see a doctor, just in case?
Personally, i would buy her some maternity clothes.  ... and i agree about getting her a doll.  One of my friends has several, and they are very soothing for her.  >> [https://vimeo.com/281972383](https://vimeo.com/281972383)
Yes to the doll and clothes—you can get them at a thrift store. I’d interpret all this as her wanting to be pregnant, her wanting the love and attention and care. She is pregnant in a sense—her body and mind are changing rapidly and she probably feels out of control a lot of the time.
I would suggest buying her a doll and doll clothing. This will help her in my opinion.
Thank you so much! This is extremely helpful.
Oh that's actually a really good idea, I didn't think of that. Thanks!
Test results won’t necessarily stop her delusions. She’ll either refute the results (even video) or forget she was tested. Dementia robs them of understanding.
Thank you! Yeah, I'm having a really difficult time doing away with logic when it comes to communicating with  her about the delusions, so this is a good reminder for me.
Id still try it if you can't think of anything else that works.  Not like pregnancy tests are expensive.

 Its not about reasoning.  My dad trusts certain people more than me and one of them is himself.  When I have a video of him saying something he is more likely to  listen. In a case like this, if he were female, I would pick a moment when he's at his most lucid and happy and do the test then.  In that good mindfulness, theres, a 80% chance he'd say the right thing on video with the pregnancy test in hand.

Then I can show him a video when he disagrees again and there would be a 50% chance he listens to himself enough to not bug me about it.  So not guaranteed success but hats better than nothing.
