I will follow this because my 91-year-old mother is in assisted living, has dementia and has fallen at least 5 times. Three were serious: broken collarbone, broken shoulder and broken hip. Any change in where she's staying scrambles her mind and it takes days for her to regain mental equilibrium. I'd like to know if you find a solution that doesn't involve an unnecessary trip to the ER.
It sounds like he need a movement alarm or a bed alarm. I agree, unnecessary ER visits are more traumatizing than treating a fall where he lives. 

In my memory care, we could order mobile xrays, so xray techs who can come, do imaging and then send the results to the facility's head RN and provider. 

Otherwise, dad might need someone to be in the room at night to assist with ambulatory to the bathroom, or changing spoiled briefs.
Can you add a service at his current facility to have someone sit with him through the night? Or put a movement alarm on him/his bed? 

Sorry, have not looked at the other suggestions, but these just popped into my head. Good luck, my dad has fallen four time since moving to AL in August last year. He calls me each time. The last time I had to call paramedics because I could not get him up. Luckily, he wears an elder phone around his neck which has one button on the back programmed to call me when he holds it. This is stage one for us for an electronic monitoring device. I really hope you find something that works for yours. 

Good luck.

Edit: I cans spell soooo goods
We had the exact same thing with grandmother who has atypical parkinsons and some form of dementia. She also kept getting up in the middle of the night and waiting. We were able to convey to her that she needed to stop telling the staff she hit her head when it was just a little bump, because every time she said something, they'd force her to go to the hospital and then she'd gave to go into quarantine. It was such a CYA and not remotely about her health and wellbeing. She was able to remember to stop saying it. Not sure if your father can do that.

We actually got her to start wearing a helmet during the day to protect her head. I wonder if he could sleep with one on at night? 

I honestly would consider moving him to a different facility with more common sense. We did that with my grandmother and it's been much better.
If he’s already on hospice services, talk to them. Hospice usually wants to keep their patients out of ERs. AL usually doesn’t have a nurse in duty 24/7, but the on-call hospice RN can do a visit and physical assessment to see if he needs to go to the ER. They will also want to him calm, and for someone with dementia an ER visit isn’t calm. 

(Retired hospice nurse here who for the last couple of years I worked did the on-call, working exclusively night shift and did many visits to facilities to assess patients who had fallen. To homes too.)
I would find out who does the EMS in your area and talk with the EMS supervisor about the transports.  I'm surprised that EMS isn't already calling hospice and refusing to transport if there are no obvious injuries.  Perhaps you can get it stated in his advance directive to not transport without calling you or hospice, which may also mean talking with a manager at his care facility to reiterate that.  These fall policies are there as a CYA, but I've personally as a medic called family or hospice instead of transporting. It's literally what hospice/palliative care is there for.
This seems extreme, and you are right to be concerned. Does the facility not have a bed alarm or fall pads they can use to alert staff to when he is moving? Do they seem understaffed? There are numerous ways to prevent falls, and this facility doesn't seem to be doing any of them. Maybe it's time to talk to the administrator or move your dad to a memory care specific facility.
I used to be admin for a group home for intellectually and physically disabled adults. We had “restrictions” which were approved by a committee to keep them safe and were reviewed every four months intensively for effectiveness and need. They were signed off by the clients family, nursing staff, doctor and psychologist (treatment team). This could include bed alarms to detect movement, door alarms to prevent elopement, or mats placed on the side of the bed to prevent injury from frequent falls. 
Ask the admin of the facility about this, if the ER runs are more traumatic than the falls themselves this could be a solution.
I want to thank all of you for your thoughtful, caring advice. You are the best of Reddit. My mother, sister and I are going to have a call with the director and others at the memory care unit. Going in with specific solutions will make that so much more productive.
I'm sorry your you and your mother are going through this. 

I crossposted this to /r/eldercare and there's a good discussion starting:   


[https://www.reddit.com/r/eldercare/comments/lfkhds/unnecessary\_911\_calls\_at\_memory\_care/](https://www.reddit.com/r/eldercare/comments/lfkhds/unnecessary_911_calls_at_memory_care/)
Sitters and bed alarms. This is the answer. This is how we do it once they get to the ER and become ours to protect from a repeat fall.
Movement alarm could work, but the issue is that the staff will take like 10 minutes to arrive. There's little sense of urgency.
Thanks! I'll check over there.
