Maybe reminders? My LO does not even brush her teeth. She lived alone during the covid quarantine so I was not able to go into her apartment for about four weeks. I also did not know she had started dementia until this happened. I visited but not in her apartment at her window. When I finally got into her home she had not done dishes that whole time! I don't think she bathed and found burnt on foods from microwave use. Reminders everywhere in her home might of helped. Like by microwave..no more that 4 mins, in bathroom remember to brush your teeth, by toilet don't forget fresh panties (depends) etc. I did get her a clock with the date day display she loves. But in all honesty not sure she would even follow them. Dementia is very individual I'm noticing. Wishing you much luck in your research.
My mind goes empty when asked specific question like this, but might check around in my website.  The only thing i can think about right now is my EXTENSIVE use of clear containers ... but my website is all about symptoms and strategies, so i know there is lots pertaining to these issues.  >> [https://truthfulkindness.com/](https://truthfulkindness.com/)  .
At a certain point technology that the person did not grow up with becomes useless for those with dementia.
My mom was fairly tech savvy but can no longer figure out her laptop despite having it set up so she does not need to log-in and music automatically opens at start-up. 
She no longer understands email in that she asks did I send the email to her phone or iPad (and yes she means email, not texting). 
The worst was one day when she sent messages via texts, emails and FB messages all related on a single conversation but each time randomly selected one of these communication platforms.
She struggles with her digital TV & remote but is hanging in there so far.
I am (seriously) planning for the day that I have to replace her cell phone with a rotary landline and a TV with a dial to turn the channels.
She now goes through a shit ton of post-it notes.
Also if I would have known I would have gotten a home camera that you can talk through, so I could see and talk to her daily.
