I am going to give a much different answer.  If your grandpa is dead,  call hospice.  When my husband died I called hospice.  They sent out the hospice nurse to pronounce and contacted the mortuary to come and pick him up.  

Talk to hospice and verify with them what you should do.   

I am a retired paramedic. I can tell you that if you call 911 the intrusion is pretty awful.  Talk to your hospice people to find out what you should do :)  I am sorry that you are having to go through this!.
Ask hospice what to do. They may say Call us, not 911/ambulance. (In the US, an ambulance is not required if he’s on hospice.) They can get a physician to sign a form so if emergency responders are called, they will not do CPR: in the US, either a DNR (Do Not Resuscitate) or POLST (Physician Order for Life-Sustaining Treatment). When you get a signed DNR or POLST (typically on green paper in US), tape it to the refrigerator (standard place responders look for it). Without one of those forms, responders are obligated to do CPR if they’re called to the scene, and your family won’t want him to go through that. Don’t be afraid to ask for help. You’re not alone, you’ve got your mom, plus all of us here on the same journey are with you, too.
We called the hospice nurse when my dad passed at home.  She came over and took care of things until the mortuary people came.   I would recommend getting your grandpa formally under hospice care if he isn’t already.
You can call an ambulance.   I would also reach out to the hospice coordinator as there are a lot of questions that they are comfortable talking to you about and answering.
With hospice, you call them, not emergency services because it's not an emergency. This is the outcome that's expected when a patient is on hospice.
Thanks for asking this question, it helped me learn too!
My mother was just placed on hospice. They gave me their number. I am to call them for everything.
You got some good advice below, so I won't give any more. I'll just say that I have worried about the same thing, and googled answers several times. I think we all worry about it happening.

Good luck to you and your family!
Yes, if he's unresponsive call 911. Does he have a POLST form or Medical Directive? This will tell you whether or not you and/or the first responders should attempt reviving him (CPR).
Replying to my own words- when my grandma was dying, hospice came over more frequently.   I think they were the ones that came over on the last day but my mom knew she was gone and called the funeral home to come.
