Well, this certainly sounds shady AF, now doesn’t it? What “fees” are they saying you owe? Is this a level of care charge for additional care they had been providing? A monthly service fee increase that didn’t get added to the bill? I suggest to read the contract you signed when your dad moved in to see if these fees were disclosed upfront. As for Medicaid, each state has a slightly different process. There may be options for him in a long term care community or another assisted living with a Medicaid pending status. I would strongly suggest googling your states Medicaid application,completing, and submitting it. You may be able to get assistance from the social worker at his current AL as well with the process.
This sounds like bullcrap.  Call the long-term care ombudsman for Virginia at [https://elderrightsva.org/](https://elderrightsva.org/).   They know all the laws regarding long-term care (billing) and can help you talk to the facility.  They are trained volunteers--if they can't help you then they will escalate it to the appropriate government agency.
What state are you in? I see VA but I’m assuming it means veterans affairs?
What about Medicaid? VA benefits only go so far.
Did they do a new care assessment and determined that his functioning has decayed to a new  and lower level? It's very common to increase the cost as someone's functioning lessens. Incontinence, needing to be fed, etc - all costs more.
According to them it’s for care that he has been receiving this whole time, like help taking a shower, reminders to go on walks around the building, etc. There’s also a charge for using the VA for his meds and not their pharmacy, even though he has no other insurance. 
I do agree I should go over the contract but from how they described it, I agreed to these charges from the beginning, but somehow they forgot to charge them for two years. 
Thanks for the advice.
Thanks for the idea, I’ll look into it, but we live in Fl. VA was in reference to veteran’s affairs.
He is currently on the waiting list, but I have an appt to see if I can have him bumped to the top or actually receive it.
From what I can tell no, it’s just the basic services package, that they “forgot” to charge for the past couple years.
Mmmmmmhhhhhmmmm, that sounds like some total BS. Trust, they’re not going to “forget” to charge any damn body. More than likely what has happened is that their census had crashed due to COVID and they need to recoup some money. If you want to PM me I’ll be happy to offer any advice/guidance I can.
Are they trying to charge the extra $1000 per month to cover back fees or is that what they’re claiming the current fees are supposed to be? I would ask for a legal consultation. Maybe the VA can offer assistance there but if not, there are free legal services for the elderly in many areas.
Contact info for Florida ombudsman info.  I'm an ombudsman in another state, they can help you.   http://ombudsman.myflorida.com/Complaint.php
The fees are going forward. Right now they are only charging the 250 because they are confident Medicaid will come through for the rest. 
Yeah, a lawyer does sound like a good idea honestly. I think I will look into one.
Thank you!! I fully appreciate it.
Ugh. Good luck! That’s an insane jump in costs at any time, let alone after a yearlong pandemic. They should be ashamed.
Thanks, yeah agreed. They even told us they weren’t going to raise rent on us this year because of the pandemic. Ugh.
