Sounds like you need to enact his directive or she can apply for guardianship. Depends where you guys are located, not sure what the regulations are in the states.
A POA would give her the right to talk to his doctor's. See an elder lawyer I'm sure they could help. Has she just tried calling the doctor's office and asking if the doctor will talk with her? He might. He may not be able to tell her everything but may give her info on how to care for him etc. I had to do alot of my own research on what to expect and care for dementia on my own, the doctor did not give me that much info. Good luck
It sounds like she needs to get power of attorney and make sure medical POA is included. If she's not sure she can handle it, is there someone else in the family he might trust? It might take catching him on a good day. He definitely shouldn't be driving, if he gets in an accident and they learn he has dementia, they could sue him for everything, not to mention he could hurt or kill someone or himself.
She needs to get a Durable Power of Attorney signed and notarized before his "forgetfulness"  gets worse.  At the very least she needs him to sign a HIPA form for the doctor to be able to speak to her.  Unfortunately it sounds like he's too stubborn to admit there is an issue.
Driving: Since he failed his cognitive test, tell his physician he gets lost driving & ask the doc to report him to the state for a review. This will start the process to revoke his license (if he can’t get a physician to say he’s medically OK to drive within 45 days) https://www.flhsmv.gov/driver-licenses-id-cards/florida-granddriver/medical-reporting-medical-review-process/
That way, it’s not family taking away his driving.
Okay we are in Florida. Thanks for your help we will look into that.
He would never give her POA... Doesn't he have to allow that or sign off on something to give her POA? I'm her Granddaughter and trying to help her figure out what to do but I don't understand a lot about the legalities. Her response when I showed her your message was the above response that I gave you, that she thinks he's never give her POA.
He's extremely defensive and stubborn. She's all he has. He's from Croatia and lived most his life in Canada, has a house and bank accounts there that he wouldn't put her name on yet she's put his name on her home here in Florida and on her bank accounts... He's controlling on top now how dementia makes him mean.
Thank you
I unfortunately I don't know. I just seeked legal advice for my mom to get medicaid and it was free. I found free legal advice through my state. I think it would be in your family best interest to find out what could be done. Maybe that's guardianship but I really don't know how it works. I'm sure she has rights since she is his spouse. There should be a Department on Aging and Elder Services by County you live in. So sorry for your struggles. ( Fyi you could try posting this question on FB dementia group huge followers may get some other responses to help)
The other option is going completely over his head and getting guardianship over him. That'll take an attorney but then basically it relegates him to bring a child and her being the parent and she's in charge of how everything is handled from there on.
