If you are in the uS, then yes.  She has to get to the point where she is almost bankrupt before she gets any help.  Get a Medicaid lawyer to help you out.  There are ways to keep some of her assets.

Senior care is completely messed up in the US.  Were like a third world country (almost anyway) with the way we dont care for our elders.
I spoke to a rep from a nonprofit placement agency, and he said that group homes (that’s a house with 5-10 occupants plus staff) can do memory care too. I’ve only toured one place, but it was $3200/mo. (That’s in a suburb of Phoenix)
Check with your Area Agency on Aging (or whatever it may be called in your state/county). They can help you navigate the Medicaid requirements. In our state you have to be almost destitute to get the necessary state funding for such care but it can be done. I'm dealing with that for my wife now. The nonprofit helping me is good at shifting and hiding money and knows the tricks to filling out the forms.
Thanks y'all!  I really appreciate you taking the time to respond with this useful information!  What is " unusual spending"?  I have used some of her $ for my bills so that I can afford to take care of her during this pandemic.
M4A
Try to find a residential group home.  The costs are typically much lower and the care is usually better.
I'm a daughter in same boat as a lot of posters here....

Did my research: found suitable places for her to live.
Researched prepayment of her funeral. Was advised against doing so

Hired a very reputable and respected elder law attorney. He's been guiding me along the way. He have me referrals for a home health care provider (respite care) and a rep with long term care connections. Feel a lot less scared and overwhelmed as a result. 

Yes, the DSHS form can be filled out by a layperson, but it's daunting and the questions are scary. My history of being on food stamps was what saved me.
My grandma had 3 pensions through her husband (Navy, General Electric and social security), a large chunk of money in retirement accounts, and a paid off house which was eventually sold in order to move into assisted living and memory care. Her money (from when my grandpa died in 2001) lasted up until she passed away in 2017, but from what I was told it wouldn't have lasted much longer. She was at a really nice facility. 

My grandpa told me about this stuff years before he died when I was a young teen (and then a lot of it was confirmed over the years by others). He said he made sure she would be taken care of if he passed away. So his planning for retirement was very much intentional. Other than living on a boat before he died, he was not a flashy guy and needed very little to get by. Get debt free and save for retirement people! :D
So we have appts next week to get details but basically the facilities will give a bridge loan until my mom’s house sells. She’ll lose her VA and MA Health benefits once it sells and then will have to use up all home assets and then Apply for Medicaid.  It’s so messed up. 

I’m nervous that when the home money ends in 2-4 years they’ll toss her out in the street.  There are so many unknowns. 

Do not try to hide money. We got an elder care lawyer, and they give some good advice.
U.S. elder health care is shit. You have to have less than $2000 in assets before your are eligible for Medicaid. And once you are eligible, the Medicaid nursing homes and memory care homes are not the nice ones. 

My husband has a new diagnosis of mild dementia. We went right to an elder law/estate attorney the next month. Moved the majority of our money into my name, and deeded the house to me with a trust to my daughter. All so that we don't spend all of our life's savings on my husband's care should he get worse. I recommend an elder care attorney. The whole thing cost us $1000 for the trust, no cost for the advice to put our checking and savings into my name.
Check with an elder attorney, there is such a thing called a Medicaid trust that helps get them eligible for Medicaid which is 100% legal—Medicaid takes her assets and uses it up while your mother is under their care. If there’s any leftover (unlikely), it gets returned to next of kin after she passes. Once it runs out, she stays on Medicaid because she’s now eligible for it. 

Even if you can’t get a bed, they can provide you with a home care worker to take care of her 24/7 (my grandpa had that.)
If you're in the US then your best bet is to contact an elder care/estate attorney AND your County Office of Aging. Your goal is to get her qualified for Medicaid and both of those are great places to start. 

In the meantime be very careful with your mother's money. In order to qualify for Medicaid they'll want to see her financial statements for the past five years. Any monetary gifts and unusual spending can disqualify her. 

The good news is that 60k is not that much money (depending on your state) and most social workers and specialized attorneys can provide you with all the "work arounds" you need to help her keep some assets and still qualify for Medicaid. 

You'll also need to have Power of Attorney in order to handle these things for her. Do you already have that in place? Depending on her stage of dementia she may not be legally able to sign documents. That makes things more complicated but not impossible. 

Good luck! It's time consuming and difficult but it can be done.
They take everything  all assets I quit my job to be a full time care taker and my job was way easier
I am in Georgia and the memory care facility we are about to put my dad in is $4k a month for a semi-private room (his own bedroom, but he will share bathroom/kitchenette), so I assume you can find comparable pricing in Kentucky. 

My Dad has enough savings for us to be able to pay for it for 4-5 years. He has too many assets to be eligible for Medicaid and is too young to be eligible for Medicare, so we are going to be putting all of his money in a trust as others have mentioned. You can easily find an elder care lawyer who will have a consultation with you for free and tell you exactly what is best for your specific situation.

Feel free to DM me if you need more specific help or someone to vent to.
She is donating her body to medical science so no costs there
Agree with the others suggesting talking to an Elder Law attorney.
If either of your parents served in the military during war time , there is special assistance available thru the va. My dad had never used any of his va benefits until he needed memory care.
Yes, she has to exhaust most of her funds for Medicaid. I’m going to make 1 big suggestion here. Plan and prepay for her funeral now. It’s a Medicaid allowed expenditure. My dad did this and we won’t have to worry when the time comes.
So you think it's worth it to spend some $ for the lawyer then?  Thank you so much for replying.  I figured this was the case just hoping it might not be.
Thanks for replying.  $3200 is much better than 6000.  I'll look more into NON profit agencies for info!
 That's the kind of information I need.  So, look for a nonprofit?  I'm in KY and will look.  Thank you so much for replying!  I feel very alone in all this and any help is appreciated.  I'm sorry you're dealing with this as well.
Because you're her child that MAY be seen as trying to hide money. I would keep a time sheet of how many hours a day you care for her/ last pay stubs/ other evidence that shows this is basically your job and paying you is clearly the least expensive option. I have no idea if that will help but it surely can't hurt.

You've been given great advice on who to contact. Start making phone calls tomorrow, get things in place as soon as you can. It's likely your local agency on aging (or what ever they call them in your state) will be able to guide you on making clear that money was spent responsibly. In the meantime don't make any large cash withdrawals, government agencies tend to hate that, and if any have been made be prepared to account for what the money was spent on.

On behalf of your mom I want to say how proud I am of you. You've got this, just take things one step at a time. It's so hard to do this alone, hang in there. Giant cyber hugs.
Im curious: why will she be losing VA coverage?
Thank you for this info. I fear I am on this path with my husband and am so stressed on what to do. You've given me a clue at least.
Thank you for the this helpful info!
Thank you!  Best to you as well!
100% worth it to talk to an elder law attorney. We did it for my in-laws, and it was incredibly helpful. She saved us a lot of money. Doo it soon, though. It's important to be able to map out how you'll handle the future.
100% yes.
It IS legitimate to spend some of your mother’s money on the lawyer to protect her assets. That’s a valid and appropriate use of her money. You don’t have to pay for it yourself.
I was told the state can’t step in until my mother has exactly $17,500 left of her retirement.
The place I talked to was Oasis Senior Advisors - I believe they operate in multiple areas. The guy got my price range, gave me a lot of general information, and then took me on a day tour of four places including one group home (bc I didn’t want a group home at the time - he wanted me to see them and understand the concept better). 

That was pre-covid. They’re still facilitating placements but things are a bit different now. 

Didn’t pay him a cent. They get a flat commission from whatever place you select.
This might be a good start (if you haven't already seen it):

https://chfs.ky.gov/agencies/dail/Pages/default.aspx

Good luck.
That's kind of what I was thinking!  As to the cash withdrawals..thank you again.  I was thinking of doing something...now I won't.
And I appreciate your kindness and encouragement.  I needed it.  You're a pretty good person;)
If she sells her house, her income will be too high for the VA Aid and Assistance. She’ll still get her $400 a month, but that’s all.
A lawyer can help shelter some of that money so the spend down meet Medicaid criteria. We have my mom in a nice place now but when her money is spent they won’t keep her. Once she needs memory care we will be moving her from her current Assisted Living arrangement. If there is any to shelter that she can give to her kids, great. Otherwise I just want her in a good situation until we need to go on assistance.
I second Oasis Senior Advisors. They have been amazing in helping me get good care for my mom.
I was hoping there were some options like this.  Thank you again!
So are you, your mom's lucky to have you. And I'm glad I was able to be of help.

You can always come here with more questions or if you just need to talk. There are many wonderful and wise people here. This is a hard journey to make alone.
 It sure if it’s different for state, but my aunt recently went to see a lawyer about my grandparents. There are a lot of loopholes that can help you keep money. The lawyer told her that if she had someone come in and assess how much $/hr they would charge to take care of them, that she could start paying herself that amount and it wouldn’t cause issues when it came to Medicaid kicking in. Find a lawyer that offers a free consultation in your area and see what all they say you can do.
Yeah, I just moved my mom to memory care in January and it’s almost double her ALF cost. Her finances will be completely depleted fairly soon. The next year or so and then I’m not really sure what to do at that point. I’ll cross that bridge when it gets closer to it.
