Congrats on the job!! Maybe just try not to take anything personal. You have the experience so you know how it can be some days. Some days are really good and others are just miserable and nothing you do makes it better. On those miserable days, try to be extra patient. I know I need to practice that as well. It’s hard at times but very rewarding. Good luck you got this!
So much is communicated non-verbally with this demographic. Projecting calmness, kindness, and confidence (even when you have to fake it) will get you far. You can find good resources online such as Teepa Snow’s YouTube videos. 

An abundance of patience is needed, as well as creativity (you may often have to go along with some scene that you’re not entirely sure of). Things that remain for many people are old songs, so be prepared to brush up on some old tunes and don’t be afraid to sing with them. 

It sounds like you have some good experience already caring for someone with dementia. Thank you so much for being so attentive and caring to this often overlooked group.
Compared to other locations, a senior living center is FAR from the most difficult job you could have in this field.  Anytime you work in a field that is healthcare related (hospital, nursing home, senior living) there is an element that is difficult.  You are generally supporting or directly caring for people with chronic illness and other significant needs.

Having said that, I think it was a bit premature (and inappropriate) for the director and HR interviewer to make the comment they did.  It's almost like they're trying to tell you to leave already.  I obviously don't know you, but I'm more worried about the management of this place (by the director's comment) rather than about you.

Take care of yourself, make sure you enjoy what you're doing....but cut loose the moment you feel it's too much for you.  Really.....it's okay....it's REALLY OKAY.
The ability to let something roll off your back is a good one for sure. When they say or do something unpleasant do your best to leave it at work. Some can be resentful of the situation they are in and with a bit of mental disability things can get uncomfortable. Also not engaging the conflict is a good idea.
My biggest advice is to take a break when you need it. Working with dementia and alzhemiers can be VERY overwhelming. If you're starting to get overwhelmed, I definitely suggest trying to do a task that is not directly with a resident. Hell, even go sit in the bathroom for 5 minutes. Trust me, it will save you your sanity.

Also, if the company consistently asks you to cover shifts, say no. You'll get burnt out faster. 

Lastly, make sure you take time to decompress after your shift. Take time for yourself. It is really easy to get caught up in your residents and it can really become your life - which is okay, this career is very rewarding - but you don't want caregiving to ONLY be your life.
You will figure out as you go as to how thick your skin is and I have no idea they would tell you such a thing concerned them. As if they thought so then why hire you? It won’t take you long to figure out if the job is for you or not. Do pamper yourself, and just talk to the clients as if they understand everything you say. But don’t argue a point if they are off the wall as it could upset them more.
