You need an elder lawyer. We have just entered this phase with my husband’s mother. They are expensive but it will save you bundles in the long run. If they own their home and get money from versions sources this is important. When it comes time and they have to go to long term care or get in home care, the state will take over (if your in USA) Medicaid will freeze all assets to pay for care. Wishing you well, I’m sure this is hard on you.
Are you in the United States? My husband and I had obtain guardianship of my mother in law because her dementia was too advanced for her to legally provide us PoA. In my state (Hawaii) PoA is never "assumed" by relationship, i.e. my father in law could not act legally on her behalf simply because they were married. 

We had to work with an elder care/estate lawyer and physically appear in family court before a judge. It was expensive and took months to simply get the hearing. In fact, by the time my husband and I were granted guardianship the first thing we did was set up home hospice for her and she died soon after. 

We needed to prove, via her neurologist, that MIL had advanced dementia and the attorney's assessment during the meeting, which MIL attended, went on record. MIL was also required to attend the hearing so the judge could kind of make his own assessment. 

I know it varies by state, region, country, etc but when it comes to a petition for guardianship the loved one being looked after has every right to defend themselves. And yes, your father will probably be furious. But if you, an attorney, a social worker, and a judge deem him mentally unfit then there's not much he can do. However, if he's savvy he can probably try to fight it. 

It's a really unpleasant and confusing part of the care giving process  but if you feel it needs to be done then start now. 

If you have any questions please let me know.
I'm in KY. Our county attorney is handling our guardianship case for my MIL. KY is the only state to require a jury trial before guardianship can be assigned. 

I don't have any advise in your specific situation, but will agree it's a lot of work. At the same time, my stress over what MIL is doing has gone down dramatically.
I have a consultation with an elder lawyer on Monday. I’ve spoken to at least 5 different lawyers and none of them have been able to help me. 

I am definitely aware that I need to do this ASAP otherwise the state will take over. That’s what I’m scared of. I’m just hoping my father doesn’t put up much of a fight because they’re also on a very fixed income and if he drags this out, it could be catastrophic. 

Thanks for the reply!
Yes, it’s great that you have a consult with an elder lawyer. 

It will also be important to discuss your parents’ plans for your brother’s care once they pass.
Thank you so much for your reply. I am in the States and have (hopefully) found an elder care lawyer who can help. I’ve gone through at least 5 attorneys who couldn’t help. 

I do have a letter from a neurologist stating that he is too incapacitated to make his own medical decisions. My father also speaks to a social worker often and she has made comments to my mom that she sees his deficits. The problem with my father is that  he was in the car business for 40 years and is incredibly convincing and charming. I’m definitely afraid that he will be able to sweet talk his way out of this and could potentially delay this process. My parents are on a very fixed income so him fighting it could be very bad for them. I just know that I need to do this because he’s causing my mom and brother a lot of stress and it isn’t fair. 

I appreciate you taking the time to comment!
I’m sorry to hear about your situation. It’s so hard to know that you’re doing the right thing but the person is putting up a fight. My father, too, will put up a fight and I worry about my mom and brother. My mom is battling brain cancer so she shouldn’t be dealing with much stress. I’m 100% ready and willing to put up this fight but it’s exhausting. 

I appreciate you taking the time to comment. Thank you!
Good luck to you.
My pleasure. I know this is a rough, rough situation and dealing with someone who still has the ability to charm is going to make it harder. I'm glad you found an attorney; part of the process is also their impression of him. 
I just hope that the courts aren't are backlogged in your state as they are in mine. If our situation had happened after COVID I don't know what would have happened.
Does the neurologist think your dad is capable of signing his name? I recently had to do this with my parents to get POA for my dad and the neurologist wrote a letter saying my dad was capable of signing his name. When we met with the estate lawyer, she had the letter from the neurologist and let us proceed.
I don't know if your situation will allow, but we didn't tell MIL until I'd received emergency guardianship. It made it a lot easier for us.
I’m in Ca so I’m sure our courts are overbooked and backlogged. Im currently reaching out to his doctors, social workers, neurologists to see how much they will be willing to attest to his mental state. It seems pretty obvious to most so that’s hopeful. 

He sometimes realizes that he has limitations but his ego is huge and the fact that it’s me that’s going to get this conservatorship will make him combative. We don’t have a good relationship at all but I’m the only one that can help him. My mom has brain cancer, my only living brother has autism and my other two brothers have passed. It’s either I take over or the state will and they won’t be as accommodating.
We haven’t mentioned anything to him as of yet. He would agree to a durable power of attorney over both he and my mother but the fact that it’s me getting a conservatorship over him will make him combative. We don’t have a good relationship but it’s either I do this or the state takes over his care.
I get it completely. We actually turned my MIL into APS where we live and they basically said that I apply for guardianship or they do. Not an easy situation at all.
