That is soooo rough. Please don't quit school. No matter what. You GOT THIS.
There’s a Facebook group for the AFTD - and within that, a totally private  (non-searchable) group for young caregivers, I definitely recommend joining it 

https://www.facebook.com/TheAFTD/groups

There’s a lot of info on the AFTD site itself, it’s quite dense but worth a read

https://www.theaftd.org/

Clicking on the links describing  specific caregiving problems eg [here](https://www.theaftd.org/living-with-ftd/managing-ftd/)
will give you a ton of useful info

This is a tough and very misunderstood disease. So sorry it happened to your mom. It is good that she has the diagnosis though so that you can find useful  support.
My mom was officially diagnosed at 54 with FTD, I was 22. She passed in 2016 at 60. 

Please do not give up your life. This disease progresses a little slow and then super fast. But don't give up your life to take care of her. My sister lived at home with her and my Dad to help take care of her. Her mental health suffered greatly for it.

Go to school. Get a therapist. Visit and help when you can, but don't make it your life.

Edit: age
Get all of her finances/legal needs taken care of now while she can still sign for herself. This is a MUST.
My mom's doctor prescribed her gamma light therapy for an hour a day and she also takes namenda. I don't know if any of it is working, but look into both. Gamma light waves from the gamma meditation light may actually help the brain clear itself of plaque, which I dont know is a problem or not with frontal lobe dementia. My mom's form of dementia is undiagnosed, she had hydrocephaly a couple of years ago and developed dementia from it basically.
My mother is in late stages of this I care take with my dad dm me I know the process well it’s terrifying and scary and overwhelming be brave keep here pain fee mentally and physically is my advice also you will prolly be moving back within a few years or drain your family fortune LOVE HER UP NOW TAKE PICTURES  VIDEOS AND NONEASY WAY OF SAYING THIS but it will be hell hard. My mom got it early too dm me I  seen it all been through it alll (late 20s) god bless

When the time comes hospice but you need or someone still needs to be there with your father helping it’s barely a two man job let alone one . My mother can’t talk or move at her current stage yesterday she seized up you’ll never get use to these scares be a great care taker and great daughter school is important
Actually 56yo is not young for FTD.  Suggest you connect with  [http://www.theaftd.org/life-with-ftd/newly-diagnosed](http://www.theaftd.org/life-with-ftd/newly-diagnosed) ; also there is a group for care-partners of those with FTD on FaceBook.  Let me know if you cannot find it, and i can connect you with a few people.  Dont panic <3
I am in a similar situation as you as I am 20 and my mum is also 56 but we found out about her early onset dementia about a year and a half ago. Don’t let it stop you from going to school but just try and have as much contact with her as you can and be her best friend. 

It is also really important to look into setting up support especially if you cannot be physically with her. I’m not sure if you have other family members and what options are available for you but support stuff can often take a long time so it is good to get onto in sooner rather than later.
After numerous neurology, a CT scan, PET scan and a neuropsychologist assessment I found I my dad has FTD. I’m 26 and he is 73. Its something you can’t ever prepared for. 

Get all of the power of attorney, and personal directives set up while you still can. 

It’s a brutal disease and very difficult for caretakers. Do what you can do and remember to be a daughter first. Don’t give up on your dreams or future because of this. Unsure where you are located, but there are processes in place typically (at least here in Canada). I found for me, therapy helped greatly grieving the loss of my father- even from the fall when we really noticed something was wrong until now, things have progressed very quickly. Hang in there
Thank you. I am going to be coming back every weekend to keep my job instead of getting a new one. My plan is to stay at my home with my parents every weekend and work. 
I hope it works out well
She has time but the rare frontal moves quick
Oh my god I’m so sorry. That sounds so terrifying. 
It’s so hard being strong when I know she won’t live long.
I don’t want my dad to have to take care by himself of her when it gets bad. It scares me that she may never meet my kids etc. I got a therapist which has helped but it’s just so scary and unfair.
I’m going to be home a few days a week to work and stay at home. I hope it’s a good in between so I’m not draining myself fully but I can still see her a lot. I’m moving to a beach town and my mom loves the beach so her and my dad are going to come visit a lot too! I’m just so scared and it’s hard to work out any logistics. We found out Friday so it’s very recent.
Feel free to PM me if you have any questions or just want to vent. I remember how scared and devastated I was when I first learned of her diagnosis. I was also SO mad. So, you know, I get it.
That sounds like a good plan already! I wish you the best
