I am sorry. This is the absolute hardest. I am also currently in a similar boat. Although every person is different and I dont know your situation sounds very difficult. I try to talk to my mom about cooking. So its both declarative and procedural knowledge, something she may be able to fill the gaps in with one or the other. I know she still cooks for herself at home. The same other basic conversations. Is there snow outside? Is the sun shining? Are you watching TV? What are they talking about? These probably seem really basic and sorry if I misunderstood the topic. But I am so sorry. Its really the saddest disease bc the person is healthy in body but nowhere close in mind. Virtual hugs and support.
I’m so sorry. When I talk to my dad on the phone, I usually tell him about things I saw, like a cute dog or a birds nest...things that have a strong visual that can understand. If he’s engaged I’ll tell him a story about my day and thank him for listening; he usually feels good about participating in that way!
I started talking way more myself. Picked topics she liked, or 'simple' things. I always went over in person, though. They used to watch lots of tv, so I started being more descriptive (what's happening, what's just happened), gave my emotional response or opinion on things (that's beautful, that's sad,... linked to a desciptive why). Lots of talking and filling in. They liked birds, so when I spotted them outside I told them andwe watched them together. Also started talking about little things like what they looked like, what they were doing, while we were looking outside how the weather was,... Small talk. They liked talking about their past, and lots of it, and going over memories, and as they processed further also their traumas became more clear. So I listened. I asked them to tell me stories, I prompted them with bringing over old pictures. The more gaps their memory got the more precious the stories got for me, I think they really appreciated I listened so well and fully interested in it. When old trauma startedgetting into conversation, I'd like to believe it gave them some relief me just listening. And acknowledging it happened, and being empathic about it (that's sad it happened to you, that must have been hard for you, I see it affected you, etc). Listening to those stories actually became key for me. Focus on topics and stories changed somewhat. I picked in on those. My grandpatent started remembering their old, late childhood/teenager dog a lot, so I picked in on that. Talked about the dog, brought out those pictures, etc. You will notice what they respond to. After getting so familiar with their stories, I could help fill in gaps later on. In the beginning I was patient and let them search them their words, and told them it was alright, It was okay they had to search for it, I acknowledged it was frustrating for them (they were very frustrated), I also said that I understood and it was unfortunately part of the disease and thus made them understand I knew (in theory) what they were going through, I understood it was frustrating to them, didn't blame them but saw it as part of the disease, and slowed down together with them and tried to meet them on their level of functioning. I started filling in more and more gaps at the end. They had trouble finding words, I filled in facts or suggestion for words. While finding their precise words was difficult, they could easily let me know if my suggestion was right or wrong by saying yes or no, nodding, letting out a frustrated grumbling, and so on. No doubt it must have been very frustrating to them I had to fill them in, but I saw it as still being able to make conversation and connection. Those stories wouldn't be told anymore without my help as they became too difficult for them to find all the right words and facts. And I believe they appreciated still being able going over those stories, even when they needed lots of help with them. Listening to their stories never become boring to me, as the alzheimer processed the focus could change, they picked different wordings and expressions, and so on. Those stories became really fleshed out, it helped me understand my grandparent better. In the end, when things got very difficulft, it was possible for me to tell them their stories. Unfortunately I couldn't take a lot of advantage of that because of corona, but I believe it was comforting to them listening to stories of themselves that 'ringed a bell' and were comforting to hear, but they couldn't go into those depths themselves anymore to reach for those memories themselves. That's your advantage over a care member.

I started writing down pieces of their past and stories. Made a timeline with important dates, their interests and hobbies, a family tree, little important facts,... I brought those notes every time with me. I opened them and told them I wanted to talk some more about it, and tried filling in the timeline and gaps or clarify some things. It was a great conversation starter and helped things going. A certain day they would remember X well, so we would talk about that. When it got difficult we talkedabout Y. So on. Their SO was present and could help out sometimes. The notes gave purpose, direction, and I think they felt so as well. For me, those notes helped me to fill in gaps in conversation from her past, keep track of points of interest, links to talk about, and so on.

I also, started bringing over pets more and more (dogs were easy). If they like pets, it's very therapeutic. People don't connect with other people as they do with pets. With pets, the verbal aspect isn't important, you connect on an emotional level. The animals won't judge you if you say a wrong word, or forget something, so it relieves sstress and pressure on your loved one (even if you let them know it doesn't 'matter' to you, it must still hurt them right?). They can connect with the pets in the here and now. The petting themselves is sensorial stimulation as well, and relaxing. How does their fur feel? How nice and soft is it? And do they see how those pets react to them petting them? With dogs, they are so very responsive so it's nice to see them react so happily because of them petting them, or the dogs being happy just to visit and see them, them coming over if they call them out, making them happy giving them a threat, and so on. Way easier way of connecting wth them than with other people. I believe it made my grandparent feel competent they had so much direction in those contacts, and seeing that action-reaction so clearly, feeling purpose of making the pets happy, and so on. I also had so much small talk about the dogs. Told them their names. What they looked like. Just descriptive what they were  doing. What they were up to at home. So on. It was truly a joy, for all involved I believe. It's very much possible to get contact with the person, through the 'medium' of pets as well. My grandparent wasn't only connecting with the dogs at that moment, but with me as well.

There isn't so much of a logical flow-chart, or step by step, or guidelines, really. You will have to feel it out. You will make errors and you will also grow. That's alright. That's very human. Figure it out together with your mother along the way. Who knows, it might give her some relief you aren't perfect either or don't know all exact answers either, during those moments she feels her mind slipping. Getting some comfort of going through those wild waters together. I believe the most important thing is to be empatic. Try to meet her on her level, always. Connect there, in ways it is possible. Don't gloss over the fact she has alzheimer's, acknowledge it and let her know you don't like it either and make her understand you understand her emotions related to it. Read a book about the disease ans understand it well. I saw my uncles reacting with misunderstanding and frustration and denial, that doesn't help anybody and sometimes it even hurt me seeing how they responded to my grandparent and how it must have made them feel. Read some notes about paraphrasing, and other psychological dialogue tips, that does come in really helpful. Get creative about ways to connect and bond, there is so much more than conecting on conversational level. I also think it might take some stepping out of your comfort zone, and be okay with that (like getting more okay at figuring out with your mother what she tries to express, it's okay it takes time). Taking some distance from your own 'ego', and your expectations. I think it helps letting those go and to focuse on the person with alzheimer. Another important thing is the shifting of roles, and it was diffent for me as I was a grandchild, but I can understand it can be difficult going from 'child' to the more caring role in the relationship. Take care of yourself through all of this.
