I was not familiar with this term and had to look it up. Has your family tried any dietary adjustment? Depression can be fed by sugar and simple carbohydrates. Many people who suffer from depression can greatly benefit from a keto-type diet, avoiding pesticides, sugar, white flour/rice/bread/pasta/carbs in general. I know adjusting someone’s else’s diet can be difficult, but I can tell you personally that it helps my mom’s brain when I can eliminate those things from her diet.  She is a sugar/carb junky, which may be why we are where we are now.

I’m sorry you are going through such a tough time, and I hope you find some answers.
I sincerely hope that dietary interventions or even pharmacological interventions could help her. But no, in 2021, you don't have to wait on an autopsy for a diagnosis. I don't know where you are geographically, but near a major city in the USA you could go to a specialist center that would take a sample of her cerebro-spinal fluid and DNA, and render a diagnosis or at least rule out a bunch of things. This is tough, I know you are probably exhausted.
Wow, I never thought of that. I was starting to keep a pint of chocolate ice cream in the freezer at all times since it seemed like it comforted her, but now I'm second guessing. I'll give it a go

Thanks!
Our doctor/referral situation is a bit of a mess right now, especially with COVID, so I don't know if we'd be able to organize it. Even if we did, getting her there would a nightmare. Still, it's a good thing to keep in the back of my head for when things get better

Thank you!
Keto ice cream bars at Costco! We keep them in the freezer at all times. Great when you want that ice cream fix but no guilt and no gut!

If you suspect your mom is getting dementia/Alzheimer’s, I strongly recommend you research diet and Alzheimer’s. Tons of new findings in the field of brain research, as well as microbiome research (both are closely related). Remember that what she does WILL affect you, your dad, and everyone in your family. You may find that if you can get her diet straight and if she can develop a mild and consistent exercise routine, you could turn this around. And trust me when I say that you want to turn this potential diagnosis around if you can. The amount of research you can find on YouTube is pretty amazing these days. I wish this research had been available twenty years ago. I might have been more forceful in my insistence on a clean diet and personal care routine.
