My TL;DR - We put mom back into memory care about a month ago. Despite very obvious decline leading up to the move (we're talking like, physical signs), mom still managed to throw tf down on the staff and get herself hospitalized for a week.  She was in her now home for less than two days. She's back now though. Won't know how she's doing until the weekend. Alzheimers can suck a fuck I hate this disease.
I’m so sorry. We did the same yesterday, but it went well for us. Sending you love and strength to get through it.
I'm sorry. I am currently in the same boat. My mom ran out of money and had to be moved to a community that takes Medicaid. It's been 10 years with this cursed disease and it's exhausting. The first week in the new community went well, but last Thursday she started throwing tables and chairs at residents and staff. I got a call and went to the ER. She calmed down and after speaking to social workers and her doctors, the community took her back. Not even 12 hours later, she was back to throwing tables and hit a nurse. She's currently in a psychiatric ward trying to see if they can figure out the right medications. We're into day 4 now and it's not going well is my understanding. We've been told that she's clearly a danger to others, and as she's shown aggression towards us, they do not feel it's safe to bring her home with us unless we can afford enough nurses who specialize in anger and agitation to be here 24/7.
We put my mom in assisted living in November of 2019. She was unwilling, but she was in independent living and the place she was at had no open assisted living openings. It was hard, mostly because she was moving away from people she knew, and a place she'd chosen, but she was "fading" too rapidly and couldn't be trusted to make good decisions. She wasn't violent or destructive, but was very unhappy with me.

In March, while the facility was under lockdown, they moved her into memory care. It was necessary, and done with our permission. But it was painless from her point of view, which meant she is even further into dementia than she was in November.

Now she's not eating, and is about to go into hospice care.
Oh, geez. I'm so sorry.
We put my Gram in a home in November. She was very resistant at first but about day 3 was fine as could be, and has been since. Best wishes OP.
Oh wow. How awful for everyone.
[deleted]
We found 12 places with lockdown wings for wandering that also take Medicaid in my state. We were lucky getting into one without more than a few months of a wait given that most were telling us the wait could take up to 5 years. We've been on a list for one of them for 3 years now and they're still saying another 3 years. It's insane.

Like you, we are in the week-long psych eval. We were warned it may take longer. If it's determined it's not safe to send her back to her community, the geriatric social worker told me that the state has no geriatric psych communities and that she will have to go out of state.

I definitely feel for your family. It's not easy.
