Absolutely wonderful that your parents are interested in these communities, and have the finances to afford them. This is definitely the very best path they could embark upon with this diagnosis. 

I'm assuming this independent living community has an arm of assisted living and an arm of memory care? Part of the intake process is that the community will "assess" your parents to make sure they are being placed into the appropriate tier. If he is only at the mild cognitive impairment stage it should be no problem for him to live with your mother in the independent community.

The great thing about integrating into the community now is that they will be able to form relationships with other residents and, more importantly, the staff who will be instrumental as your father's condition deteriorates. Their extra eyes and support will help know when it is best for your father to move to a more supported tier of care. 

It sounds like your parents are being fairly realistic about this diagnosis and next steps, which is an absolute blessing and will allow them to live and enjoy these years to their fullest. Time passes quickly, and things change without warning, so along with getting paperwork (power of attorney, wills, etc) in place I would have all of the important conversations and ask the questions you'd like to of them now while your father's cognitive ability is still able to recognize you are asking out of love and care. Now is definitely the time to get sentimental and let each other know how much you care about one another. 

Wishing you peace on this journey ahead.
This would be a dream situation for me. My parents never discussed how we would handle long term care, although they did pay into long term health insurance. Dad is now where your dad is - cognitive impairment but not full-on dementia yet. Mom still lives at home, and increasingly needs assistance. She is dead-set on never moving. Dad is in assisted care, and believes he’s moving home any day. When your parents move, they may start out in assisted care, which is just regular senior living with nursing staff benefits, and as your dad progresses, they can move over to memory care. A family friend of mine now lives with her husband in memory care. The nursing staff checks on them every few hours so my friend is not in sole care of her husband. He is quite advanced in his Alzheimer’s and is now nonverbal. Spouses can live in memory care too, if they choose to do so. 

I am so happy for you that your parents are sorting this out now, while they can make an informed decision, and are not leaving it all to you to have to convince them. Working with my parents is like pulling teeth. They avoided thinking about it and believed moving into a facility would never happen. So here we are. 

People, talk to your spouses and your kids!!
No, he will not be automatically banned.  You are wise to get your parents on several wait lists in the event that his dementia begins to worsen.  Your dad sounds like a perfect candidate for a continuing care community.  Hopefully his dementia will stay stable, but the nature of the disease is unpredictable.  Some people deteriorate very slowly and it is promising that he is still able to work.  So I would not be concerned about getting him in a CCC at all.
I never thanked you for your answer before - thanks so much!
I never thanked you for your answer before - thank you for replying. Oof parenting your parents is definitely rough.
I never thanked you for your answer before - thanks so much!
Hope things are going as well as can be, all things considered
I appreciate you, and the other folks in this subreddit who make being part of the "sandwich generation" a little easier! Thank you for your support. It is truly comforting and empowering to have this support group; sometimes it's the one thing keeping me from totally losing my mind! Hope it's going alright for you and your folks. Have a great day, kind stranger!
You’re welcome and good luck!
