First, I’m so sorry you and your family are going through this challenging time. Not knowing for sure if the new changes are the absolute best thing for your loved one is both frustrating and heart wrenching at times. 

My story isn’t entirely relevant since it has a lot of different circumstances but I thought I’d share anyway. 

I dealt with a deteriorating independent living situation this time last year (as the pandemic first started to unfold). My family member has been in the moderate cognitive impairment range for a few years now and was still enjoying life in this particular independent living facility. She was able to eat, bathe, and medicate herself without any direct supervision (all medications were pre-packaged into the correct doses so she only had to remember to take them).  Pre-pandemic, our family was able to support her in the areas she needed extra help (weekly social visits, laundry, doctor visits, housekeeping, other random daily tasks) and thus she was able to still live “on her own,” in a community instead of cooped up in a home by herself. 

Once visitors were banned from the premises he to Covid, we could only check in with her daily via phone. Everything seemed to remain the same and she was content despite the changes going on. 

What I eventually discovered is that her dementia was severely exacerbated by the complete disorientation from the shutdown of all activities and socialization. At the time, there was intermittently zero interaction with anyone because management would restrict the residents’ movements so much. She lost 30 pounds in four months because they kept changing the dining services. (They were responsible for serving three hot meals a day.) For example, the dining times and method of service would change – sometimes they’d open up the communal dining room for socially-distanced eating; other times the residents were restricted to eating in their rooms (but had to “sign up for meals,” or else they’d be skipped). She just couldn’t keep track of what was happening and I think ended up missing many, many meals. All the while, NO ONE at this facility had any oversight as to whether she was actually eating. She never gave us any indication that she was having any issue with getting to her meals. 

She also stopped bathing properly; no one noticed or said anything to us. Of course she is telling us that she’s fine and that everything is the same and fine. She’s normally a super easygoing, nice lady with a penchant for harmless confabulation, but we figured she was still capable of complaining or alerting us to any issues she might have. We were wrong. 

We pulled her out of her facility as soon as we were able to have an in-person but distanced visit with her and could visually see (and unfortunately, smell) that there was a huge problem. Her conversational skills had just plummeted and she had also lost interest in reading (because she couldn’t keep track of the story), her previous favorite hobby. 

The staff was overworked and spread too thin due to quarantining, actual illness, or burnouts. I hope that these facilities are in a better position these days and I’m sure having a vaccinated elderly population makes a big difference. Independent living is markedly different care at most facilities than assisted living or higher care. The staff fully expects the independent living resident to be just that – independent. 

We had dealt with a previous independent living facility in another state that treated her like family; kept in touch with us whenever any issue came up , however minor (one time they emailed us that she had had a tiff with another resident over the rules of a card game); and just had a warm, cozy feeling in all the common areas because there was always a staff member checking in on or interacting with the residents. 

Her last place was just so cold, corporate, and sterile; but sadly, the one that best fit the budget when we moved her to be closer to family. None of the staff (save one receptionist) ever had the time or inclination to make any significant connection with our relative. The turnover was high and the motivation to say more than hello to the residents seemed really low. 

I just want to reassure you that you can never do “too much” in the interest of your loved one.  I understand that you can’t see or hear a lot of what’s going on in your relative’s life right now. But remember, even though they may be going through some mental changes, you and your family still know them better than the staff at their new place. If you sense something is off, don’t brush it off. You are also essentially their voice. Do your due diligence to give yourself peace of mind. Take advantage of any opportunities to (safely) keep the person-to-person connection with them, whether it’s video chats, or escorting them to their doctor’s offices, or having outdoor visits at their facility. 

Could our relative have naturally declined just due to the progression of her dementia? Sure. But I think her de-socialization and the lack of a person who legitimately cared about her day-to-day well-being in her life was a huge factor. I’d also like to think if we had had any interaction options last year, our relative would’ve mentally and physically fared a lot better, most likely because we would’ve changed her care level environment sooner. I just don’t know. 

In the end, there’s always going to be a limit to your capabilities for this kind of out-of-home care. It’s going to be difficult and stressful and imperfect. Hang in there and take care of yourself so you can continue to take care of them.
Thank you, thank you for this wonderful reply. I’m going to have to read it over to really digest what you’ve said. Did you move your relative into assisted living or memory care?   How did she do afterwards?
Circumstances worked out that I’m her full-time caregiver for now. We’re using this time as a bridge to eventually move her into a memory care unit because the situation really isn’t sustainable (for her or me!) for an indefinite time. 

The transition was difficult. She tried to leave the first week because she thought she was just “going downstairs” to the communal dining room like she previously used to. She only did this once, but it gives you an idea of one of the many new hurdles we had to overcome and still continue to deal with. Her space is literally papered with gentle reminders of what to do (charge hearing aids, drink water, what time meals [generally] are, etc). I have to help her with bathing now because she would get in the shower and just take a quick pass with a barely wet and soapless washcloth and call it a day. She used to be so much more attentive with her personal hygiene. Her isolation seemed to affect her to such a degree that it really made me especially sad that she had to live like that for who knows how long without us knowing. 

We don’t know exactly what the future looks like or how quickly she will approach the need to be moved into a full-care facility; but she’s safe, clean, and happy with us now. 

Again, just keep your eyes and ears open. Don’t rely entirely on the staff; if you’re not getting a warm, fuzzy feeling about them, trust your own gut. Best of luck to you and your fam.
