There is no real right answer for this.  It's completely dependent on the individual suffering from Alzheimer's and how family interacts.  My mom would do this when she was first placed into a care home and after a few occasions of rough visits, crying, guilt, etc., we started timing our visits to just approximately an hour before meal time, or some other scheduled activity. 

Dad and I would escort her to her table, chit chat about the coming event (a meal, art, singing), wait until a moment of distraction and quietly melt away.  If she noticed, or followed...rinse, repeat.  It was a struggle and emotions are just all over the place but after a few months, she eventually accepted that this was routine and it became normal for her.  She spent 2.5 years in this home before passing.

The only thing that seemed to be consistent for Alzheimer's or dementia patients is routine.   
So this is what we tried, and it worked for us.

You will feel awful.  You mom and dad will feel awful.  However, I can almost guarantee that your dad has forgotten or moved on from the issue of you leaving, shortly after you were disappeared from sight.  Try different things and go with what works best.  If you can, connect with the staff to see how he's doing after you leave and plan from that.

Hindsight is 20/20 and in this case, I firmly believe that we would not change anything about the decision to move mom into care.  That doesn't change the fact that I cried a lot on the drive home after leaving mom there, but it was the best place for her.

Just hug each other a lot, that's one of the biggest recommendations I can make.
I’m sorry - that sounds really tough. My brother and I had a similar situation when we visited my mom for the first time behind the plexiglass (outside visit too). She kept getting up and running to the car telling us to take her home. We also cut it short because she was saying awful things. It was really difficult to see. I don’t have much advice I just wanted you to know this happens sometimes and it’s okay to feel crappy about it. It is such a hard feeling.
One more person here who's been timing visits to end when they pick my mom up for meals. 

Also - having discussion topics prepared ahead of time helps a lot. Almost like ice breakers at a cheesy speed dating event. Otherwise, it's so easy for a conversation, especially in the first visits, to follow a format like "We love and miss you so much" and then what they focus on is the emotion of missing you for the rest of the visit.

It's better if you can skip over that, and instead lead with "I heard someone in the parking lot talking about how they had karaoke here. I remember you singing such-and-such song when I was young, do you remember that?" And maybe start a verse of it and see if you can get him to join in.
They feel abandoned because they don’t know what is going on when you visit. When they are living life in their “home” all is well. You must not take it personally. They are coping as best as they can, just a you are. Be strong and find the good. 
All the best.
Unfortunately, it just happens. I keep thinking I need the motto "It Is What It Is" put on a bracelet as it's what I have to fall back on. My mom tried to smash a window when we tried to visit that way. She tried to throw a laptop when we tried a video chat. The phone she throws and walks off. We simply cannot visit her for now as she doesn't react well if we're in masks, face shields, and not in a position where she can hold hands.

Before COVID, like Deeshyone, we timed visits to be before a meal. Food is a big thing for my mom and she would happily leave us for the promise of a meal. If we visited after a meal or hours before one, she would have a meltdown. Visits of more than 30 minutes with us always led to a meltdown. She's told me many times that she hates me, wishes I would go away and never return, etc. It does hurt, so I'm slowly learning that I need to take care of myself and do what I have to do to keep my own sanity in check. I was diagnosed with depression many years ago and I have anxiety disorder, so I do have to remember self-care comes first.
I honestly don't know what I'd do without this subreddit. You all are always so helpful and it's reassuring to hear other's stories and experiences. Nobody else understands unless you've also been through it. 

I like the idea of timing it before meal time. that's a great idea for routine-sake and so he has something to distract him after. Thank you for that.

You are correct that my dad quickly forgot after we left. I reached out to the coordinator and she told us he settled quickly after and that he was adjusting quite well, better than most do. She said he has never expressed feeling abandoned or lonely so that's reassuring. 

Thank you so much <3
thank you for sharing your experience. I spoke to the facility director not too long ago and she said that is a really common reaction so early on and why so many families don't visit for 2-3 weeks. She said he was upset for a little bit after my mom left but that he settled quickly and didn't seem upset anymore. She also said he's settling really well and has never expressed any feelings of abandonment or loneliness so that's quite reassuring. Man, it's tough. Thanks for chiming in.
That makes a lot of sense. I doubt my dad thought about us in those 6 days and then was suddenly very confused to see our faces. The facility even mentioned my dad hasn't asked about us. Thank you.
The visits did get easier for us all after the initial settling-in period but I second the idea of timing visits around activities or meals. Sometimes (pre-covid) I’d bring my mother to the dining room and get her settled at the table. Other times I could more gracefully finish the visit with lines like “here’s Anna, she’s come to get you for your dinner” and one of the staff would bring her down so that I could slip away without a fuss or without being questioned
