Look at it this way; the rent she pays you can be recycled to pay for her other bills that Medicare won't cover.  By charging her rent, you are saving her money.
When I went through the Guardianship process with my grandma there was an option to pay myself through her estate for caring for her, which I opted out of since she has an in-home caregiver already. Honestly, it makes sense. There are even programs through the VA and Aging & Disability that pay family members who are caring for their loved ones. I wouldn't feel guilty about it at all. You are doing a lot of work, and any financial assistance your mom can provide will make everything easier for the both of you.
My mom lives with me, the social worker from her Hospice team told me, “don’t pay for anything for your mom out of your pocket, only use her money.”
Depending on her health insurance (medicaid or Medicare), she might be allowed only a limited income per month, so even if you expect rent and other amenities to be paid by her, you could save it for her under your name, use it for buying her clothes, movies, trips, etc and you wouldn't feel weird about it, perhaps?
I would say pay yourself!  We have been caring for my father for 5 months and we have yet to be paid anything other than a couple of grocery trips.  You know what go through on a daily basis, so if she can afford it, do it.  Like others stated, it can be used for other medical bills or assist you in getting any extras that may arise.  I have a home office but it is an absolute mess because we have to get him coffee, put his compression socks on, every meal, drink, change channels, and basically everything else.  Worse than a 5 week old puppy.
You could either:

1. Consider it even since she is in your home and use her monies for her necessities and keep it informal, or

2. Get someone both of you trust to agree to be her [Representative Payee](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representative_payee).

>A **Representative Payee** is a person who acts as the receiver of United States Social Security Disability or Supplemental Security Income for a person who is not fully capable of managing their own benefits, i.e. cannot be their own payee. The representative payee is expected to assist the person with money management, along with providing protection from financial abuse and victimization.

The second option, when combined with good bookkeeping, can help ensure that everything is (and seems to be) above board. It hands the fiduciary responsibilities to another person so as to avoid any conflict of interest (or perception thereof).
What does the POA state? Some say that you can be reimbursed and others say you can’t, and maybe it covers certain expenses. 

I definitely think it’s fair to pay yourself. Personally, if you were trusted to be POA, I would also be the representative payee for her social security. My husband’s ex raided their daughter’s SSA account as she was representative payee and I am considering reporting it. I looked up the statistics and there is a lot of fraud associated with other people as RPs. Just keep account of where the money goes.

Edited for clarity
Yes, that makes sense. Her Medicare doesn't cover much!
Thank you. I'm glad to know it is more standard than not. The in home care is so far out of reach for her we are trying to do it through family before we have to succumb to fed aide...the income will help because she does tend to leave lights on, water running and all kinds of other fun things...and of course specific diet items add to cost. I guess it is logical just my heart and head are arguing. I appreciate your response!
I am so sorry you are at the point of hospice. That must be difficult. So do you pay yourself a flat rate and pay with the money she gives you or just pay expenses direct?
Yes, I work from home as well and have been wondering how I'm going to pull this off. So many interruptions and it is always conveniently at the worst time. Thanks for the response!
Yes! - part of my concern. Now that I am her caregiver I don't want anyone to be confused that I am taking something not warranted. I want to remain above reproach for her and them. Maybe a specific account to deposit the money in and show expenses paid...hmmm thanks!!
These are definitely great ideas. It sounds like you are in the US. As you know, programs and laws vary state-to-state. I would see if there is anything like an Aging & Disability office in your state and check to see if there is a helpline or a way to schedule a phone meeting to go over your options and questions. You could also reach out to your [local Alzheimer's Association chapter](https://www.alz.org/local_resources/find_your_local_chapter) to do the same.
I pay my mom’s expenses out of her account.
Great idea!!!
