It’s been driving me crazy that my mom (currently in hospital for diagnosis) makes exertion noises with almost every task that she engages in. Zipping her coat - grunting. Sitting in a chair - grunting. Lifting toothbrush - grunting. I only connected the dots in my mind reading your post that maybe she does it because she is fighting the dementia and everything does *seem* like a struggle to her
My mom did this too, and actually seemed to be in pain, and when her meds were increased she did this less than prior.  Good luck!
My dad regularly does this babbling thing, like a kid pretending to speak another language.It annoys the crap out of me and I cant,for the life of me ,figure out why! And how not to be. Ugh!!He also does thing where he grunts when I get up,sit down,bend over and it immediately pisses me off! I tell myself I'll miss that shit when hes gone, but then I only end up feeling guilty.
My mother is also a groaner. Day and night as well. When she is in pain or distressed it’s worse. We figure it’s a self soothing mechanism. No suggestions, but I wanted you to know you aren’t alone.
I am on team earplug and noise canceling headphones as well. My mom makes a variety of noises all day long. From the “oh! Oh! OHH!” while watching TV to repeatedly saying “here we go here we go here we go” while doing something more difficult like cooking or going up and down stairs. I read that it’s a way to self-soothe (kind of like when you have a stomach ache, you may curl up in a ball and rock and moan). She doesn’t realize that she’s doing it or that it’s on an incessant loop. Sometimes, to stop myself from screaming, I will sing along — here we goooo! We are going! Here we go!! Let’s go! She’ll laugh, but it starts again thereafter. I do notice that she doesn’t do it while reading— the morning paper or a book. Crosswords and number puzzles will turn the babble into actual puzzle solving muttering. And no moans while sleeping thankfully. But I hear her get up because the “ooh oh mmm oh oh ok ok ok” self talking has begun again. 

When it’s a more difficult activity like dressing, showering or minor meal prep (I ask her to peel the potatoes), I’ve come come to see the looping “here we go” as a combined self soothing and out loud direction giving (I do this like, for example, I took apart a small appliance and talk myself through piecing back together). 

But none of this solves the real problem— the water torture that is hearing this moaning 24/7. For me, I really needed to find Quiet so lots of walks, drives and when really fried, my sister takes over and I go elsewhere for a few days. I even looked into getting a cheap artist studio in the town nearby just to go, sit in a sunny window and NOT HEAR ANYTHING for a few hours. 

I hear you though. It blows. And makes you wonder about yourself— how something so innocuous as a noise could make you rage. This, I tell myself, isn’t even close to how bad it’ll get and already you’re flipping out? No answers, only sympathy.
speaking as a person living with dementia, it is POSSIBLE the grunts are from fatigue. Leaning over, yes even briething; when i am having a really hard time dealing with pain and fatigue i grunt with ANY exertion.

i write every week, and the entry that my friends say they MOST wished their loved ones understood is  Time & Energy by Truthful Kindness at [https://truthfulkindness.com/2015/07/20/time-energy-consumption-dementia-symptoms/](https://truthfulkindness.com/2015/07/20/time-energy-consumption-dementia-symptoms/) ; 

... but also ... [https://truthfulkindness.com/2021/02/14/partner-distress/](https://truthfulkindness.com/2021/02/14/partner-distress/) .
She's losing the connection to the world around her, and the noises probably help remind her that she still exists. Due to bad eyesight and bad hearing, they can be very lonely, if you're out of view you don't exist. 

Try giving her something to suck on, like a lollipop. Those can stave off the worst moments. Keep track of the sounds for two weeks: make a little table, label the cells per hour and paint them green yellow and red. Green isn't limited to the absence of the behaviour, but anytime it's just not bothering you and or her. Yellow is mildly annoying and red is problematic. Define the behaviour best your can, so you can be consequent in your colours. you do this for 2 weeks (Try to log it as specific as possible) and see if patterns emerge in the timing and the days. Check out what she's doing during green times! See if red is combined with noise in the house, or her sitting alone etc. Is she tired?
Then, devise a 'thermometer' for her behaviour, so you can decide (and always reference when the stress is high, or when plan A didn't work) what interventions to offer. Tv, something to eat, something to do, something to talk about etc. 

And last, but really the first one: take care of the caretaker, you. If you burn out, you're both worse off. Seriously. Take breaks, yell into pillows, do some mindfulness, post here, go sit outside, wear those headphones and give her a lolly. Look into respite care, just having her or yourself out of the house for a few hours is golden. Don't wait until you're on your last legs. 
Use the table to tell yourself: it's usually worst between x and x, so even this will pass. Use your thermometer to give interventions while you're still both ok, etc. 

Best of luck.
My dad makes noises and I make no connection on it yet. When he is mentally challenged he purses his upper lip. When its worse thn normal his eyes get a faraway look. Sometimes when hes up to something he gets a devious look. hes a narcissist so I can tell when hes on the prowl. Its weird cause since his stroke 3 years ago I dont think ive ever seen him smile or joke or think anything is funny. he just bitches about, criticizes and complains about everything. Even when he doesnt understand it
They kill me ughh happens like atleast once a month with my mom or they are stealin my money. The neswest one is i dont live here we've lived in the same house 27 years now. I too need to step away every now n then but i recently quit pot n they anxiety is unreal its weird though when i try to clam her down it actually clams me down too weird n funny. Hate dementia
A few weeks ago my grandfather and I was sitting down having a pleasant conversation. During the conversation his ability to speak completely disappeared and all he could do was grunt and moan. I ended up calling the ambulance because it but he got so upset with me for because he hates going to the hospital that by the time the ambulance arrived he was talking clearly again. I never connected it to his emotional state  but you could be on to something. Also for sleeping I bought some sleep headphones on amazon and play white noise on them to drown out all sorts of sounds, might be something that could help you.
So sorry that you're going through that. Yeah, I've read all kinds of posts for what causes this trying to find a solution. Everything from pain to trying to find comfort has popped up in posts. Mom groans most of the time, but when she is watching TV she says, "Uh, huh, uh, huh," constantly, like she is agreeing with what the people on the TV say. 

I really hope that something pops up to help with how annoying this can be. I'm team earplug at the moment. I have noise canceling ones rated to protect ears from construction noises...but sometimes she's still audible through the plugs. Yikes.
Thank! Yeah, I have hopes that the voltaren gel on her back and knees will help with how much pain she is in and the noises she makes. So far no luck, but I'll keep trying.
It's such a relief to read that other people also get annoyed AS SHIT at their parents with dementia.
Oh, geez, that is rough. I'm so sorry. Mom doesn't do that yet, but most of her sentences come out gibberish. She'll say, "Can I ask you a question?" But then when she actually tries to ask it comes out like, "I want to go to the place to do the things and you know that would be good and I just want to do the thing." But it just keeps going and she never actually says anything that I can understand. 

All the rest of the time it's the groaning and grunting.

Does music help distract your dad and help him be quiet? Sometimes when mom first started making the noise the radio would help.
It's such a relief to read that other people also get annoyed AS SHIT at their parents with dementia.
Thank you so much for writing in to say that. I really hope that there is a way for you to have a break from the noise and stress it causes.
Hi, thanks for the suggestions. Hearing and eyesight on her is great, btw.

We've tried gum to see if it helps, but she grunts and chews gum. It's a very weird thing to hear. And when she eats, she grunts and eats. I imagine she will suck a lollipop and grunt, but who knows?

The spreadsheet is a great idea. Since she's been making this noise for months, we have a pretty good understanding of when she makes it. It starts immediately after breakfast and continues all day, unless she is in an aggressive mood and then she just spends all day calling people names instead. Her caregiver joked today that we can't seem to have both (she means both quiet and nice). We can have nice, but mom will grunt. And we can have no grunting, but we get verbally assaulted all day. Guess that's my luck!
It sounds like a hard time and I'm so sorry. I hope you have a way to get a break. I didn't have any help at first and it ground me down so hard. You've really been paying attention and trying your best to understand your dad, too. That's really admirable, especially since it sounds really stressful. Best of luck and fingers crossed for a break for you.
As a daughter of a stroke victim, I think you did exactly the right thing by calling an ambulance just in case!
You are amazing!  Know that!!
Sometimes I'll play music from the '40s and it's all good, singing & smiling. Other days, he bitches and complains. Today he was beyond my reach emotionally, so I just went into the kitchen and cleaned, aka therapy, with my own music turned up! When i peeked at him,he was sleeping!
  Thanks, The craziness is whats hard. Knowing truth and seeing what he thinks is true. Sometimes its a wide gap. The good days are fine. Just dont always know how to reconcile what he thinks vs reality, how to make him happy.
Ex-at the doctors today and I asked her about his intestinal problems. he had always told me and I saw a couple times, it mostly happened at 2-3 pm. He corrects me that its 6am. 
Oh well, never dull.
Yeah, a lot of time I have to step away, too. When she really falls asleep at night and the grunting stops, I feel so nice. Favorite time of day. I'm glad you've got an escape for when your dad really gets bad, too. Mom doesn't have too many interests (never did), so there is not much that will occupy her. I sometimes wonder if she had had a hobby from before, like knitting something, if doing that could have made her calm and moan less. But I'll never get to find out. Her only hobby from before dementia was gardening, and she's not really mobile enough to do that kind of stuff now. :(
