My dad has Alzheimer's and I asked his neurologist about "keeping his brain active". We talked about crosswords, puzzles, etc. She said those are fine if your parent enjoys them but they aren't particularly good at "challenging" the mind. She said nothing is better than conversation with others. Your brain never knows what to expect when talking with others and must always be thinking/making connections.
Physical activity, exposure to sun (Vitamin D) and social connection is what the science is saying.  She also needs to get sleep.  Sleep deprivation will make anyone lose their mind.   
That's why folks who combine friendship with exercise outside do better - the sun sets your body clock that helps with sleep.  

Also, for your mom's own well-being as a caregiver, there's an excellent book called, The Best Friend's Approach to Alzheimer's Care.  [https://bestfriendsapproach.com/](https://bestfriendsapproach.com/).  

Good luck as you care for a caregiver.
Maybe try looking at pictures with her? Things she would find familiar(like family or where she grew up?) I would also recommend looking at the Alzheimer’s association page online for suggestions/resources they have always been helpful in my past experience
I've heard learning a new language helps.
I like to ask questions about my dads first language. He teaches me expressions so he has to engage his brain. Hope this helps.
Would she be at all interested in something like an iPad? I didn’t think my mom would be but she uses here mini a lot. She looks at pictures (all of the kids upload photos to a shared iCloud photo); we take her “with us” via FaceTime if cooking a new recipe or doing anything she might be interested in (my brother just hands off his phone to his kids and they take her on “tours”; she plays simple games like candy crush, solitaire, and mahjong; she checks the weather everywhere; oh and Facebook, which os new to her.

I don’t know what is available on this device as far as apps in her native language, but if that’s something she would enjoy — or recordings/music/audiobooks — that could be of interest.

As far as I know, there’s no medical evidence that “brain games” really help memory. But engaging with tasks that require organized thought over a period of time do seem to help. (Not a doctor so take my interpretation with a grain of salt.) Puzzles, card games, and block stacking toys all need that kind of concentration. So do most crafts.

I hope that everyone is able to break out of their Covid bubbles soon. If it’s warm enough there, remind local people to stop by—keeping their distance and masked, of course.
Thank you so so much
Thank you so much for this
I appreciate that thank you!
Thank you so incredibly much for your advice- it is so incredibly appreciated
