Is it a physical infirmity or confusion with the steps? Are they inside your home or out?

We have a stair lift installed and it's expensive but worth it for when dad feels too weak to use the stairs. In Canada home adjustments for accessibility can be a tax credit so look into that if you are looking at modifying your home.

Stair half steps are also available that basically add a half height step that require less effort to climb, like this...https://stairaide.com/

Outside the home, you can also look at lift belts if you are helping her up and down... Some other thoughts here https://www.unitingtoadvancecare.com/how-to-get-an-elderly-person-up-the-stairs/
I just looked up the Evacu Trac and it only is made to go down, it's only for evacuations, not normal use.

Check with your local medical device dealer (usually a drugstore) for help coming up with something to use.
She physically can’t walk any more ever. She had a stroke early last year then when she caught COVID at a rehabilitation center for breaking her hip over a sandwich, she stayed there for 3 months quarantined, no exercising, no diabetic medication for her type 2. She rejected the shots and the nurses didn’t make her. I’m angry at them. We used up the rest of the Medicare for the same treatment as if she was actually being helped but nope. I want to blame them Bc she wasn’t so lost. Even after the stroke and broken hip, she was coherent and could walk all around by herself with no walker. Then once she got “sick” at a rehab they didn’t do much for her except feed and bathe her. Once she got back she cried and said “I thought you guys were never coming back”.

Today, We make her move quite often through out the day, surprisingly no bed sores. But when we ask her to get up and go, when we try picking her up she says shes moving her feet but I think she means to say she’s trying. But it seems like her feet don’t move at all. 

The half step ain’t a bad idea but my dad who’s still young, I know will trip on them and the dogs Bc they go up and down frequently. Do you think that’s be a problem. And I’ve used the lift belts, the nurses that come in on a regular basis use them but I don’t. I did when she was fat but I stopped using it Bc within months, she’s lost a lot of  weight and now she’s really skinny and just excess skin. I pick her up myself. 

My stairs, it would cost a small fortune Bc I don’t have space on the landing for the seat. and the wall with the stairs comes flush to the ground. There Was a floating railing system but it was dated so we ripped it out and never replaced it. Thinking of Getting the evacu trac I can get up the outdoor stairs and the indoor stairs to get inside. There’s no where to put in a concrete ramp. I’m not in the best house for my grandma but I just can’t afford to move. So I might have to buy the evac.... I just don’t know if it’s actually a one person kind of chair.

Thank you very much for ideas. I really appreciate it.
