Sundowning seems to be essentially a series of cues/triggers that lead to “reduced fitness”, and I could would think any person with a cognitive condition, not just Alzheimer’s, could experience this. It may be her past history has primed her brain towards this. 

My mother doesn’t seem to have Alzheimer’s but she definitely has memory issues and is physically weak. I’ve noticed that the first thirty minutes of her day and the end of the day is pretty rough for her.
My mother died from Alzheimers in 2018. She had Sundowners & as conditioned got worse, she would request help to get out of bed 17 times in one night. I wrote down the time each time she wanted up and discussed w docs. No good news as sleep aids are only prescribed for a limited amount of time. 

Gosh just cherish the time you have. My mom got to where she was bedfast.
My Gran has had non-bizarre delusional disorder her whole life with occasional episodes of psychosis. Also has a history of alcohol abuse.

When she got dementia, she would be absolutely stellar first thing in the morning, wonderful in the afternoon, but around 5pm every single night, the hallucinations would start. I've never heard of the term Sundowning, but that would be 100% what it is. Evenings and nighttime were hell for all of us.

Just as an aside, I inherited many of her mental illnesses that run in her side of the family. I only experience psychotic episodes during a 2-3 hour window in the evening and I operate my best first thing in the morning. I'm 26F.
If your mom has seen a doctor, what did they say about it? 
It's getting stressful for both me and my controlling/immature father.
I don’t think she’s seen a doctor in at least a year, but they are pretty resigned to it being a slow and steady decline. Fortunate for us she’s very manageable and not emotional, and can more or less take care of herself (bathing/toileting, eats when hungry). She just can’t remember *anything* in the short term. 

Anyway, I don’t have advice other than to anticipate it and keep her difficult hours as uncomplicated as possible. Maybe switching up the hours when she takes her meds might help, or taking a calming supplement like melatonin St. John’s wort, but that’s up to a dr to weigh in on. 

I also will say, my mom also just sits and netflixes all day. I firmly believe this has contributed to her situation - she doesn’t do anything to keep herself stimulated or moving, and hasn’t for the last ten years. But, it’s past the point of no return and there just isn’t anything to be done about that, so we don’t force her to do things she finds uncomfortable or painful. 

Best wishes.
I would be cautious with supplements unless the doctor okays it. My dad had Alzheimer’s and there were some supplements he couldn’t take, like St.John’s wort.
