Is the moaning a sign of pain or is she just making noise? My friends mom had early onset dementia and she would hum or say a name almost constantly. Apparently hers was just a vocalization symptom, kind of like a tic, where making the sound relieved tension or felt good. 

Is it possible the moaning is similar?
My parent does this too especially when sleeping.  I just remind myself that it’s okay and normal.  My parent has a form of Parkinson’s.
I would talk to your hospice nurse and see what they think. Is there pain? Does she need to be in a different position while sleeping? A bit more elevated? Maybe boost her oxygen while she is sleeping? Or even awake. Is she dealing with anxiety? Just a few questions to ask that might help.
Sometimes there is nothing you can do. I worked at a PCA staffing company and aids would call all the time asking for a relief to come in because they couldn’t stand the moaning. It’s just a part of life from what RN said.
Maybe play calming music for her?
Dad is 94 w/ parkinsons and dementia and he makes a moan, not constant but often and long. He makes other noises as well and it gets a bit concerting but theyve never found anything wrong. I know he is always weak and tired but he says he isnt in pain. maybe its like when we unconsciously make a gasp or some noise.
Most likely.
Yeah, dealing with those things, making those adjustments. Thanks for the advice.
That's the impression I'm getting.
I keep the TV going and play music for her a lot. Right now she's doing better.
I think it's probably mitochondria, the cell's energy factories, just not working well, a kind of general weakness.
Ive read also that as we age the heart starts wearing out and pumps less and less. I have no clue if Oxygen treatments would do anything beneficial.
They seem to be helping a bit. She goes down to like 90 at times, so I'm keeping her at 2 or 3.
Good, have tried to get my dad to try em but he refuses he has allergies''' he coughs alot from drainage'''....meaning doc finds nothing but dad wouldnt tell anyone if he had issues.
I didn't mean treatments, just being on oxygen. The numbers for oxygen ranges from 1 to 6 or so. 

There are some drugs that can help with excess secretions in more dire situations, as hospice has informed me.
Ok gotcha. yea dad wouldnt use it all the time. he doesnt want anything tht makes him feel he needs help. Even though he cant walk w/out his walker.
