As a caregiver I'm pretty direct about it. If I really need to do/go something else, I say "okay, I need know x, and I really have to go now. I can listen to your story when I return in y minutes," and then I actually leave as they are talking and continuing to follow me out while talking. If I have the time later, I will remind them and let them tell me that story again because I said I would. I feel really impolite doing this but it's just what has to happen. I know that some I have worked with felt really bad about talking constantly but just couldn't control it. It will eventually stop, maybe suddenly, or maybe after a few years it will fade away into mumbling vocalizations.

With adults with special needs I have said "okay I have 5 minutes to listen to your story and then I have to do xyc. It's 1:30pm right now," listen to them, and then at exactly 5 minutes start to disengage. This doesn't work with people with dementia though because they forget when the 5 minutes is up that I told them I only had 5 minutes.

You might want to notice what energizes this kind of behavior and what, if anything, will slow it down. Sometimes certain soothing or calming activities can help someone stop verbalizing as much. You can also coach them to take few deep breaths to slow their heart rate and calm them. There are lots of reasons someone might be talking a lot---the most common is anxiety from feeling confused. Also in telling their stories they are trying to hang on to those bits of themselves either by keeping in the forefront by telling them, or passing the info to you. They just don't know how many times they are re-telling the stories.
I play along with the gibberish but my mom takes non stop sometimes i take an Alleve and join in her conversation
As silly as it sounds I envy you. My grandfather hardly speaks at all. He said maybe 6, 10 at the most words and half German (but I could understand) when we had Easter lunch with him last Sunday. I was hopeful that showing him pictures of his child and adulthood that I’ve been archiving would bring something out of him but all he did was identify a couple people in a couple photos after being asked several times slowly in English and German who was who. Good luck with dealing with your grandmothers dementia we all need it.
"word salad" is a common symptom (altho i have not yet experienced it myself).  The drive to try to communicate is much for stronger for some of us than it is others.  

My own feelings about communication (last week) at [https://truthfulkindness.com/2021/03/31/tied/](https://truthfulkindness.com/2021/03/31/tied/) .
I can relate. My grandma talks constantly, especially during movies. She doesn't follow the plot at all, she talks to her dog every few minutes, she talks over the movie telling me stories that make no sense, she insults the actors looks, points out random things in the background or the weather and asks where they are. Its hard to watch a movie with her and tiring constantly talking and listening to her. Sometimes I don't respond or I say yea, wow, or thats cool. I believe she's just saying everything she thinks because she can't control it anymore. That's why sometimes no response is okay because she was just talking to talk. Even when I have ear phones in she talks and talks. Hopefully you have a space to go when you need a break, or can half listen, or just keep reminding her that you have earphones in and are listening to something.
Haha I wish I could do that. I have headaches daily (PCS) so it’s hard to maintain constant conversations all day everyday. It tires me out.
Oo also, some Bluetooth headphones and a good pandora station lead to a private dance party for her
Ya I do theyre air pods lol since I’m a female she has no idea when I’m wearing them so sometimes I inadvertent ignore her since I can’t hear her haha but yes my grandma does the same stuff. I do have a place I can go to to get a break from it though.
