She is struggling and doesn't understand why, the confusion is tough on her. Is she in her own home? I am thinking of all the things that may help her with her memory, and perhaps asking her about her children, etc. My husband's mom had dementia and lived in assisted living with other ladies in the same condition. They had baby dolls that the ladies enjoyed holding. I also liked showing her pictures of nature, which she loved. Does she like watching programs about nature? Or, the peaceful music videos that have beautiful scenes that are displayed while the music plays. Is she in a wheel chair at all? Getting her out in the sunshine for at least 20 minutes can really help her dementia. Keep trying different ideas and hopefully she will improve.
There are videos on YouTube for exercises you can do while seated.  Things to stretch the arms and legs, etc.

You can try arts and crafts projects, or playing music that dates from the era when she was young.

Hope that helps.
Putting on music from her younger days can help a lot. The last time my grandmother was upset, I put on a recording of Dolly Parton performing live, and another time my mom played Julio Iglesias and she calmed down a lot.

I hear that it calms people with dementia to hold something, so I make her a cup of hot (warm) tea so that she holds the mug but doesn't feel silly like she would with dolls.
Grab a laptop and show her funny animal videos on youtube. My mom laughs at those.
Patients who sundown often do that because that was the time of day when things were getting done when they were taking care of a household. Getting off work, picking up the kids, walking the dog, fixing dinner, washing the dishes after dinner, giving the kids their baths, putting them in pajamas, etc and now there is a big void where all those purposeful tasks used to be. I find with my sundowners that it helps to give them meaningful, purposeful tasks. Things that make them feel useful and helpful. Flower arranging, folding towels/laundry, wiping down the dinner table, simple things your client may be able to do in her wheelchair. It can add to her quality of life and help alleviate some of those behaviors that come with sundowning. We all like to feel useful!
They tried baby dolls with her and she didn’t like them apparently haha. She caught on that they weren’t real and made her annoyed so I’m gonna avoid that. She loves music. I thought about bringing my guitar next time. We couldn’t go outside because of allergies last week with pollen but hopefully it will be better this week. She can’t walk around. She uses a wheelchair and I push her where she wants to go. She naps most of the day.
Yes! She loves music but after like 2 hours of that she’s done😂
Your guitar sounds like a great idea, and getting out when the pollen isn't bad. Can you bring a dog/cat/bunny for her to pet? Her body is wearing down with the inability to walk and her age, etc. so it is good she sleeps a lot, which means less agitation.  My MIL slept a lot and got so she quit eating but loved the shakes her daughter brought her. When their body starts really winding down it is hard to get fluids down them. Does she enjoy old movies? Just being with her is a comfort and you will learn what she likes. May God bless and encourage you.
Just a minute ago I came up with a little pneumonic to deal with sundowning: melatonin,* music, mug 

* melatonin gummies are ideal because then you don’t have to leave her unattended to get water
