It’s hard to tell from this if you are being an ass or not. Other than language slipping, what makes you think he has dementia? And is his language being affected in his first language?
Not to be harsh, but I would be offended too. Also, from what I understand you most likely have no training in administering these tests. You should leave that to professionals when necessary and not ruin your relationship with your dad who sounds like a mentally sound man in his 60's. I would apologize.
Nothing you've described sounds like dementia, and even if it is super early symptoms, it sounds like he is not receptive to your probing-- so, yes, pushing him might be insulting. If he has no loss of function, there is likely very little that could be done with a diagnosis anyway. 

I don't remember any of my old addresses, except one. I couldn't even tell you the street-- and I live in the same town as all of them. I mix up my kid's name with my pets, and call family members pets by the wrong names often. I don't have dementia, I just don't pay as close of attention to detail as I used to, because I'm busy and I care less! 

I'd focus on what you can control-- having a positive relationship with your father and being helpful and supportive.
Talking about someone’s cognitive abilities is a very delicate topic. When I administer the MOCA and try to explain to my patient why I am doing it, it’s like a dance. I have to be honest about it yet if I don’t say things very mindfully, they often end up defensive and refuse to take the test. Once someone questions your mental faculties, everything changes. The person now has to prove to everyone, even strangers, that they are OK. From what you’ve described, dementia wouldn’t even be on my radar at this point. 

I also echo what others have said, which is that you should not be administering tests without appropriate training. If a person is correctly trained they know they should never administer a test like that to someone they know. The test would be invalid simply because the chance of bias is so high; you will both react to each other which will change the outcome significantly. It may seem like a simple test, but there is so much more to accurate assessment than just knowing the items. You have to be a blank slate, know how to redirect anxiety in order to get the best out of the person, deflect questions about performance in very subtle ways, administer under specific circumstances, etc etc etc. 

You sound like a caring person trying to help your dad. Preserve that relationship. If you are still worried about dementia, take the time to talk about all the things you want to know about him and his life. Have the treasured conversations people wish they could have had before the person was too far gone.
Step one in healthcare is informed consent. If you do not have it, you can not proceed. You don't have it, you cannot proceed. 
Step two is determining the hypothesis, and finding a tool to measure that. 

Step whatever is interpreting the outcome, based on the score and the background information, and comparing those results within the agegroup. Do you have the knowledge to accurately do this? Do you know what the MOCA is supposed to measure, how you need to standardise your questions, and interpret the outcome? 

The test looks simple, but I assure you, the interpretation is more complex, if you want to draw any conclusions. Your conclusions aren't professional, so it gives you nothing. And finally, dementia isn't reversible, so what do you gain?
What you need to do is discuss your worries, and ASK. Ask how he wants the rest of his life to look etc, so you can be sure you're acting out his wishes, instead of imposing yours.
The thing I wish I had done with my mum before her condition worsened was have a conversation with her about what she would have wanted to happen when the signs of dementia showed up. I would have felt that I had permission to intervene when things started to go downhill. When I look back now I know I was too tentative in trying to help. 

I agree with the other posters it doesn’t sound like your father has the indicators of dementia. But maybe you could have a conversation with your dad about what he would like to happen if you or your mum see behaviours that worry you? Then he might feel empowered rather than like he’s being hassled?
I think I'd react the same as your dad if that had been done to me too. You don't actually see how that would be a little insulting and bothersome?

Dementia affects short-term memory, but not all memory loss means dementia. This is a medical condition that should only be diagnosed by a neurologist.

General slowing down in everything is part of normal aging. Leave your dad alone with the inquisitions and tests. If he's got something, it will show up eventually but it's not your place.
I’m going to be the one dissenting voice. Dementia should be treated as early as possible. However, the word “dementia” is very hard to hear. My husband had “short-term memory loss”. Now he has been diagnosed with Lewy Body Dementia. 

Your dad’s surgery may have affected him if he went without oxygen and your family wasn’t told. Otherwise, it’s very unlikely. 

I can’t remember events. I’m an engineer and I can remember numbers and pipe inside diameters etc. His accent is normal. Mixing up pet’s names is normal. Forgetting English words after 30 years in an English speaking country isn’t normal. 

My husband’s long term memory is also affected now although it was his short term memory at first. He mixes up events and makes up things that never happened. However, his dementia is moderate. 

Does your dad still work? Is it a problem at his job?

The best thing would be to get your dad evaluated by a neurologist. If he won’t go now, he may start getting worse and then it will become obvious that he needs to go. Your mother might be a better person to speak to about this. Let her arrange it.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Lastly: amnesia due to narcose won't suddenly show up 9 years later.
Generally, dementia is first going to show up in short term memory.  He's remembering current things just fine right now, so he's okay.

Long term memory is strongly persistent. Flashbulb moments, major occasions, are very strong. However your flashbulb moments and your dads will be different. Your memory of riding without training wheels was super important to you so you remembered. It was a step towards independence. For him, not so much. He probably thought other moments - like your first steps, or the first time he held you, or your first word were much more significant and those are the things that stuck around. 

I have lived in just a few places. I can tell you the address of my childhood home and my current home. I could probably kind of give you the addresses of the other places I lived? Like, I would miss some details. 

Misnaming and misidentification are different things. It is very common to call out the wrong name. Names are stored in the brain in semantic groups; family, pets, friends etc. Your brain reaches in and grabs the name out of the group and sometimes gets it wrong. That's normal, it happens. Misidentifying - or incorrectly identifying who a person is and operating under the assumption that person x is actually person y is uncommon and a sign that something is wrong.

Language development occurs in a critical period in childhood. It's normal to have an accent that persists for the rest of your life.

So yes, you are wrong, and you are being rude. Also - you are not a doctor so stop trying to administer tests to your father.
I would relax, but keep looking for worsening. Maybe you are seeing signs that are early enough that you wouldn’t get a diagnosis, or maybe you are seeing absolutely nothing at all.  I’m 50, and I don’t remember my daughters first bike ride. I remember her learning to ride a bike, but not the exact first ride. I also get pets names mixed up other than my own pet. Other people’s pets just don’t matter as much to me. Old addresses I can remember well, but there was one house we lived in for a couple of months that I have absolutely no clue of even the street name. As an adult, I’ve only lived in 3 houses, so I’m clueless about 1/3 if those houses.  

Again, you may be overreacting, but be on the lookout for true signs of confusion, personality changes, increased agitation/anxiety, loss of critical thinking skills, and increased memory issues. My husband, for instance, asked me today if he should eat his soup out of a bowl. That’s a sign because soup doesn’t work so well on plates. On his birthday, my friend said happy birthday to him via a text message. I read it to him and he responded by telling me to say “happy birthday to you, too!” He can’t remember something I told him 60 seconds ago sometimes. *Those* are warning signs.
Anesthesia will messup your memory but it’s fairly short therm.  You’ll have big blank chunks but you’ll be somewhat aware of it. Not sure if it’s your father case.

As for being not receptive to the test is it like him? Like, was he always a stubborn, negative kinda guy? Or is it fairly uncharacteristic pf him?
None of these behaviors seem abnormal.  They sound like *being human*. I think your dad is right and it’s disrespectful.  Why are you pursuing this so hard?
Could be. Could be many things, stress, being tired, etc. It is pretty normal to forget words once in a while. Hell, it happens to me and I'm in my 30's. I think you might be looking for signs where there are none, but if there indeed are clear signs, this is something you should bring up with a medical professional. It is a very bad idea to try to diagnose your own family members.
Agree with you u/bonnieMSM. A bit of forgetfulness is not the only sign. OP should be looking for failures in reasoning, personality and behavior changes. His refusal to take the test may be due to his fear of cognitive decline / dementia which is quite normal I think.
