When my Mom was first diagnosed I too worried about my future and the potential of developing dementia.  Keep in mind that not all dementia is genetic, for the type that my Mother has - only 30% of cases are inherited from a close relative.  So despite your grandmother having dementia, it doesn’t mean your Mother or yourself will inherit it from her - although both of you still have the same odds of developing dementia as someone without a genetic link. 
Talk to your doctor about your concerns, they will guide you on what you can do to improve your outcome as best you can.
Personally, I decided to let it go.  My Father had stage 4 cancer and I never obsessed about getting cancer - so I have convinced myself it’s no different.  If I didn’t let the fear of cancer control me, then why should I let the fear of dementia.  If you are finding it hard to live your life - consider talking to a genetic counsellor.
Hang in there!
The best things you can do to prevent or delay dementia from the research that’s out there (which is far from enough tbh), you should do your best to stay physically active, eat healthy (I’ve seen some good stuff on the Mediterranean diet), and especially GET GOOD SLEEP. You should also stay intellectually stimulated: take classes into your older age if you can, read, do crosswords, etc. Finally, and maybe most importantly, have an active social life. 

My partner and I plan to live in a state where doctor assisted suicide is legal if possible for this reason. It’s sad to say, but he doesn’t want to live through dementia, and after seeing what his LO with it is going through, I respect his choice.
This is my fear too, its on both sides of my family.
I understand your fear. I lost my dad in January due to covid complications. He was in a nursing home with very advanced dementia. His father went the exact same way minus a pandemic virus. They both went from being pretty normal to requiring basically a babysitter within a few short years. I am the oldest and next in line. 

Occasionally someone will repeat something to me they've already told me but I forgot. Usually it's something simple yet I have no idea of having been told. I have lived a completely different life than my father and his. I've been an active marathoner and triathlete for my entire adult years I did not smoke even one cigarette I eat well and I do not live a stressful life. I'm hoping that my lifestyle choices keep my brain healthy and that as I age treatments not available for them may possibly be for me. That's all I've got so I can't really worry about it too much but I know it's lurking in there somewhere.
My fear too...
My great- grandmother, grandmother and mother all three had it. Many members of that side of the family have or had it. The only thing that worries me about it is the effect it'll have on my husband. The disease itself has been the monster under the bed my whole life, it seems like it takes around a quarter of all the females and a few males every generation from that line, they all last about 5 years after it gets bad enough to be diagnosed. It's hard to remain scared of something when you've lived with it in your midst most of your life, it's just something that happens and could happen to me. I'm hoping that I won't be as difficult to deal with as my mom who refused to believe anything was wrong with her. I'm hoping when/if it happens I'll just go along with it and do the best I can and hope I see happy things like my grandma, who sweetie there were fairies in her house and that her dead children had come back to visit her.

Just take good care of yourself health-wise, don't stress over it too much because long term stress can cause it. Just live your life to the fullest and don't worry about how it ends so much.
The keto diet encourages brain function and reducing sugar and carbs have been helpful in reducing brain fog. I had joint pain and it completely went away. Just a thought. Good luck everyone- my Dad has dementia and I would like to avoid it as well.
I was worried too, but the neurologist said risks of inheriting it from my mother are minimal, so I calmed down. Risks are only high in very specific situations, eg when it is the early onset case.

Anyway I try to live a healthy life and follow rules that will help in preventing it: physical activity such as biking to work everyday, learning LOTS of me things (German, Romanian and  some programming in my case), intermittent fasting (will help on losing weight AND prevents inflammation, specially brain cell inflammation). 

Other than that, just live your life instead if worrying, because life is short and being old is miserable anyway.
Dementia is somewhat hereditary, but not in the sense that typical genetic diseases are hereditary. Its multifactorial, many things impact your risk.

Protective factors are being physically fit (especially for vascular dementia), the DASH diet (bssically mediterranian but with less salt), getting enough sleep, and learning new languages and instruments (gives an increased cognitive redundancy)

Factors that increase risk: head trauma, alcohol, smoking(!), lack of sleep, mental illness, obesity and chronic inflammation, poor diet, loneliness, mental illness
My wife has been feeling the same in the last few years as we’ve dealt with her dad’s worsening dementia. His mother and sister had it, but were otherwise pretty healthy people. There are genetic indications for sure, but there is also sound research suggesting lifestyle and health choices can have a profound impact, even if you are genetically predisposed to dementia.

I very firmly believe in living well now and not worrying about a day you may never see, but part of living well now should also mean taking care of yourself - exercise, eat well, and get sleep. If being healthier now can even possibly help later on, it’s worth it. To the same point, there are many ailments which can make your later years ugly - many of which you can prevent with better health now. I don’t want to spend half of my 70’s in doctor’s offices - if I get there ;)
You should conduct your life believing that it won’t happen. Don’t make it a constant worry in your daily life.

But in a practical sense for myself, I’m just hoping euthanasia will be an option if I get it
Worrying about future possibilities you have no control over is pointless.  Go back to your life.
Same. Terrified. And while I know what to do to help it, I can’t stick to it. It’s really hard to find tkme to work out, play games, be social etc. like. How.
I'm in the same boat. Maternal grandmother developed alzheimers and faded away from us. My maternal aunt started to show signs in her early 60s!  My mother is bipolar. I have ADD and childhood trauma and worry about this a lot.

In my reading, I learned there are some things that can significantly contribute to developing most types of dementia.

\-alcoholism

\-depression

\-high blood pressure

\-childhood trauma 

I read that anything having to do with healthy function of neurotransmitters that doesn't get treated (ADHD, Depression, Anxiety, Bipolar, PTSD, etc) is major.

Due to my parents being self absorbed and abusive, I wasn't diagnosed with ADD until my 30s but I'm treating it now. I had trouble focusing, would drift out of conversations, and was super forgetful.  My medication makes me so much sharper. I wish I had done it sooner.

When I feel depression creep in, I get medical help. I am seeing a therapist to deal with the PTSD.  I don't have high blood pressure but if I did, I'd seek treatment for that and I try to eat healthy, no alcohol, no smoking or drugs. 

One other thing, I read that socializing is incredibly important as well.
Hi! Go to a generic counsellor and run blood tests. My mum suffers from FTD and I didn’t want any chances it takes me or my brother by surprise, especially when I just don’t want to live in the state my mum lives in. 
Turns out I’ve inherited it. I want to take part in clinical trials to at least help future medicine if not myself and detect it as soon as possible when I start developing it. I’m under the care of GENFI in London now, will have the first proper talk with them on the 30th of April. Feel free to chat me if you want help, advice or just talk :)
This! There are risk factors for dementia which you can / should avoid (they are also risk factors for lots of other illnesses as well so it’s win-win). There is no fool-proof way to prevent dementia but you can reduce your risk. And we younger generation can hope, campaign, raise funds for better treatments and a cure in our lifetimes.
Yes totally agree. One irony though is that chronic stress and traumatic experiences are risk factors for dementia... and having a LO with dementia is very stressful and potentially traumatizing!
Quite true. The stress and trauma of caregiving situations can be extremely hard on people. I would say that most people are not equipped to deal with these things, and really need to seek counsel and guidance from a professional (hard) or through research and self help (harder).
