Sometimes moving forward happens in your mind.  This is a time for introspection and personal growth.  You are going through an emotional obstacle course.  The scariest monsters are the ones we can't see.  This has proven one of my greatest challenges and the one that ultimately defined my character.  I wish you strength and peace on your journey and my inbox is always open
I felt this way, too. It’s hard to make those plans when there’s so much uncertainty in the loved-one’s health. I found that taking small trips and having someone cover for the weekend or so was really life-affirming and helped my mind be relieved to think other, new thoughts for a time. I’m not sure if you’re their caregiver, but I especially recommend this if you are. Even a day trip or something with friends. The other poster’s response about moving forward in your mind is super insightful.
I stopped feeling guilt (as of now? because it doesn’t do anyone any good. Not to say I don’t second guess my decisions on their care, but your life is ahead of you, and I’d find I’d regret not having done things for myself when there was a losing game on the other hand. 
I’m sorry you’re going through this with your father.
This is exactly where I am. My MIL (Parkinson's/Dementia) was 130 LB a year ago, now 93 LB. Every time I see her, I get startled at how frail she is. We are trying to find out why she is so nauseous and losing weight. We have Endoscopy scheduled next 2 weeks but after that, we will be turning into Palliative care even if we find cancer. This is a Lose/Lose game without any resolution. I must tell myself that she is very slowly Dying every day. This is hard because I have always Grown financially, family wise and emotional maturity wise but I feel stuck at the moment.

The hard part is feeling two emotional extremes at the same time. One is that oh I could be where she is 20-30 years, I'd better live my life every day. The other extreme is, I am so sad/depressed that I can't do anything because I can't get away from here due to Covid/Kids at home/MIL.

I am not one of those who thinks the happiness is 5-10 years from now when we are retired. I do truly believe happiness is here and now, but I actually think I will be happier when kids leave home in Sept'21 and we are in a different state somewhere travelling for a month (different country would be better but alas, we can't....probably not until 2022).

I also told my SILs that they need to take over MIL's care if MIL is still alive in 1-2 years from now. I need that Hope that I can breathe and something to look forward to. I don't want my MIL's failing condition to define the hard won freedom that I won (I was corporates slave for 17 years where I saw many of my co-workers struck down with cancer, stress definitely kills you).
I try to think of what my father would have wanted. It was my nephews birthday recently, and my daughters soon. The first family occasions “without” him. 

But he was a guy who had always said/knew... something gets all of us in the end. No one knows what it’s gonna be. Everyone (leaving out narcissists and such) want their descendants to move forward and have happiness. Would my dad, when he was mentally sound, have wanted our kids to not have birthdays? To skip things that bring us joy to spend our entire lives as caretakers? No... I know for certain he wouldn’t have. We take care of him in the best ways we can. But we also deserve joy. 

The specifics of making plans that logistically conflict with demands of care, that’s always going to be hard. But it sounds like your guilt comes from love. We’re supposed to outlive our parents. Your dad knows/knew that. And even if you can’t find a path to it right now, your dad wants you to have happiness in your future.
I just try to remind myself that they had their turn to be young and fully realized. It is your time now for that. Let it be a reminder to live your life fully because there is no certainty about what lies ahead. Also, our elders don’t want our pity, or for us to give up our vigor for them. I know I wouldn’t want my kids or grand kids to suffer on my behalf.
I agree with the above responses...so sorry you are going through this, the guilt is totally normal, the uncertainty is what creates that guilt...look up something psychologist call “ambiguous loss” once I heard what that was, I understood what our mind is doing to cope with this “loss” that hasn’t happened but will happen but some of us maybe have already “lost” their loved one. One of the key take-away for me was that we HAVE to move forward, we have to find ways to cope w our loss in ways that are healthy.  I’m sure your father would agree that you shouldn’t feel guilty or ashamed, he would want you to live fully...hope this helps, sorry if I rambled...my inbox is open too and I send you hugs hugs hugs!!
I struggle with the guilt too. My father has dementia and my mother has Parkinson’s. One of the things I ask myself when I feel guilty is this “If I don’t move forward/go out/take a day trip, will that make my parents better?” Sacrificing  your mental health and well being doesn’t help them. Self care isn’t selfish. It’s what you need to do to take care of them if/when you have to. Sending you positive vibes.
I’m in the same situation, except it’s my wife who‘s got ALZ.  I’m total caregiver and it gets very difficult. I just find consolation in the small things now...grandkids little league games, working in the yard, going to gym early every morning while she’s sleeping. I also have guilt and sadness going. I retired from a major airline, had planned on lots of travel, but she can’t, so I’ve been home with her the last year and a half.   
I wish you peace and good luck in the future,  and hope you find ways to move forward. Try to listen to some Teepa Snow dementia info for caregivers on YouTube if you get a chance.
Very much so because I need to keep living, in the almost 10 years since my dads diagnosis I personally have: met, bought a house with and married my amazing husband; returned to college and gained qualifications that have got me a wonderful new job and a career; my sister has changed jobs twice and moved house twice.

Whilst I realise every journey through dementia is different your talk about 'standing still' makes me wonder if you have gone through the grief process after your dads diagnosis?
I'm still trying to figure out the "new normal" after losing my mom over a year ago. I struggle with The guilty of feeling free to do things, like move away from the area for our convenience rather than staying here and being available for my family. It feels totally alien to be able to only have to really consider my husband when we make decisions rather than wondering if everything else. It was hard making an adjustment when she went into memory care and I wasn't "needed" any more and was just a visitor. Her death felt like a release for me too, but came with guilt attached for feeling that way. I've adopted Mom's way of handling losing my dad, just keep going, even when you want to curl up and cry.
I work 7 days a week and bike 60 miles a week. The endorphins and the work keep me from feeling the shame and guilt of putting my mom in an adult family home.
Personally, i think this feeling is much influenced by the changes in how elder generations are treated.  When you look in census results during 1800s and early 1900s, you see that elder generations were consistently cared for by the younger generations.

We had great-grandma living with us from when i was 8 years old, so seeing this modeled was an accepted part of being a child or grand-child.  it was the return of their investment in us as children.

in my personal life, when i was care-partner to someone (changed at different times of my life) that need to give care put a "pause" on many aspects of life.  All my energy was used in providing for the other -- and that is okay because i value them.  -- much harder when it lasts for years and years and years, but still okay in the larger perspective.

... and now i am the one who needs care (and have for 20yrs).  i am something over 60yo (born 1957 but can no longer subtract) and able to participate in my own care but not able to go very many hours without a care-partner.
Thank you. I really appreciate your response. I do need to move forward in some way only because I need a new job (the job is toxic so it makes me feel even worse) but I struggle to do anything.  Yes this is making me take stock of a lot of things and I have many, many regrets that I can never amend. Thank you for your wishes. Finding peace is at the forefront of my mind.
Sadly my mom is only 66 though with advanced early onset. She looks a young too. It’s so sad.
60 miles is 96.56 km
