I'd think that, as something to do and a way to connect, there's no harm. If she seems happy to engage with you in that way, that's great! My own mum would find something like that very frustrating, that we were treating her like a child, and maybe become angry... So I would keep an eye out for signs of frustration or upset and stop if and when they emerge. But there truly are all types! It's possible that your grandmother is having a grand time with it!

As far as a 'point' to it... Well. No. You're not building her memory by asking her to count or name things. And I'd wager that after she named the plate, if you tried again the next day she probably wouldn't have an easier time with that object. And ultimately, you just can't stop the disease from progressing. 

But connecting with others is so hard for folks with dementia and *that* has tremendous value. So I return to engagement. If it's a thing for you to do together and that she enjoys, that's reason enough!
Unfortunately there’s not really any way to work on or improve her memory. But activities that mentally challenge her (without overwhelming her) are great and will likely make her feel more positive. And the better you feel the better your brain works. 

It sounds like your were getting her engaged mentally and socially. A lot of times people with dementia struggle to initiate that needed engagement, so you providing that engagement helped meet her needs and made her feel better. The same happens for those of us without dementia. If I play a board game with my friends I’ll feel better since I was able to socialize and challenge myself mentally. People with dementia just don’t have the communication skills to say “hey let’s do something together”. 

Keeping a list of activities you can do with her would be an awesome idea. There are lists online of ideas. Just try to keep activities to things that she enjoys and are not too easy or too challenging. Talk to your parents to see what hobbies your granny liked when she was younger.
Exercise increases blood flow to the brain - my dad is always more with it after a walk.

Regular meals helps with blood sugar (brain needs glucose).

A geriatrician he saw recommended B12 vitamins, she said most seniors are deficient and it apparently helps with cognition.
Can tell you that just sitting around all day when elderly does impact thinking.  Even zoo animals are now provided opportunities to play with toys and challenges to stimulate their brains.  

Also elderly people lose a lot of muscle    
and a sedentary life style then leads to problems getting up and moving, balancing, coordination so they don’t want to move. Add in arthritis and you can see how it all gets to that place.

Provide her with mental stimulation from old photos, music, and to the extent possible, walks and some basic exercises. Maybe a physical therapist herbalist can suggest some that won’t be overwhelming. 

Take her out for drives; maybe visit a playground or park.  See how it goes.
It may not "help" but as long as she's not getting overly frustrated, it can be a good activity. Something she has enough success at to feel good about.
Hmm, I get what you're meaning, but that, pointing to a plate and asking "what's that?", sounds a bit condescending, sort of.  Dude, if she's forgotten what "plate" and "fork" are, no amount of you quizzing her is going to bring it back.   

It absolutely would be great to find some other activities, though, appropriate for her ability & interests... 

I don't know... A jar of different coloured buttons to sort into same-colored piles, (talking about  objects of that colour, sounds beyond her, though) .. 

I've found that some kids activity books or matching-cards have good stuff in them.  Short, colourful, not hard.  (eg matching cards - monkey/banana, apple/horse, dog/steak, carrot/rabbit; or sports / whatever) Old-style nursery rhymes if you read to her & show nice old-style pictures, from her era - she'll probably still remember those.

Sitting quoits - sometimes I play sitting quoits with my mum, got a dozen colourful kids plastic ones from toy shop, try toss them over an orange, an apple, a coke can, spread out on the floor.  (lot of action for me, to go pick them up every time lol)

An oldstyle dollhouse, (or even a big picture of one) sorting the items into the appropriate rooms... 

ELLA FITZGERALD hymns!!  My mum (88 yrs old) since 50 yrs hardly ever went to church, I know she used to when she was a kid.  One day I put on a CD Ella Fitzgerald hymns, and you could have KNOCKED ME DOWN WITH A FEATHER, my mum started to SING ALONG with them!!!   I was SO shocked!!   A lot of oldies, went to church when they were kids - can't remember 5 minutes ago, can remember stuff learnt as child.

MUSIC is a huge evocative reminder, you might get some reactions if you find her old favourites music.  

Good on you for trying, hope you find some cool activities for yr gran!
it sounds like she her dementia is much more advanced than mine, but for ME those activities would be VERY frustrating.

Interaction is important, but even at my stage, these are my feelings >> [https://truthfulkindness.com/2021/03/31/tied/](https://truthfulkindness.com/2021/03/31/tied/)  .

i also suggest checking out the "activities" and "visits" sections of these Links >> [https://truthfulkindness.com/about/d-info/links-sx-strategies/](https://truthfulkindness.com/about/d-info/links-sx-strategies/) .
