I’m surprised by how often I can repeat where he left off and my dad will pick right back up where he was going. Otherwise, usually I try to continue the conversation as if he had finished his thought, like restating what he had just said, and we’ll quickly move on past the word he forgot. If I let it linger, he gets frustrated that he can’t think of the word or lost his train of thought.
I feel this 
My mother is going though the same thing 
We keep clashing because I try to help but she's not able to accept it

Here if you want to dm me for a chat / rant
Being consistently patient is something to think on.   You can only control how you react,  not how he reacts.  (But this is true for every relationship).  What I have learned watching mom over the last few years,  is that i have to be patient.   I am happily and constantly reminded by the Alzheimers Association 24 your hot line,  is that I must realize that people with dementia struggle with what you and I do not give a second thought to. 

When I say to mom "It's ok" and I smile,  it does reassure her.   I might have to do so a few times,  but it is my honor.   I just called the hotline again today for the first time in a couple of months,  and they reminded me that mom struggles even with emotions.  I saw her yesterday.   And she was so so happy,  and then confused.   After speaking with the aides on her unit and the hotline counselor,  I was reminded that I need to understand that mom processes information differently than you or I.  

It is hard to get that stuck in my head.   I'm so linear.  Lol!  Reassuring your dad by being patient is awesome.   And it seems like you have an understanding that conversations are sometimes effortless even with pauses.  If you were to take the opposite tactic and jump in to correct him,  that would be counter productive for you both.   Right?
Communication is more crucial to some folks than it is to others, because we all primarily communicate in DIFFERENT ways.  your dad may be one of those who PRIMARILY communicates thru words, and it creates panic when he is unable to communicate.

Also, some of us get EXTREMELY irritated when someone with an intact brain tells us "it's okay" and "it doesnt matter".  To us, it is NOT "okay", and it matters a huge amount !  The process of losing our abilities that made us unique is  tremendously painful.

Some of us really get irritated with "help" to find our words, because if you are guessing wrong, then hearing your guess just put the word we are trying to grab twice as far away from us.  i am very fortunate that after 30 years of marriage my husband guesses correctly most of the time, so in OUR communication that is usually helpful.
Can't offer advise on how to handle this but try starting thw word for him (after the pause) see if it triggers the memory for him
it's so hard seeing that look of confusion on mom's face😢
Thanks. I appreciate your response. I'm very aware that my choice of language with my dad doesn't help, which is what prompted my question in the first place. I know that it matters to him, and I know from his perspective that it's not OK. So are there non-irritating ways of expressing reassurance?
Want the cold hard truth?  Yes.  Yes it is.  It is sad.   But they look to you and me for verification.   You and I can be the rock that they have lost.  We can make their "reality".  We got this.   We got this.  A smile from us can transform their world.   You and I experience "time" different than they do.   Please excuse my crass approach,  but F what you and me think.   Let's think about how time is inconceivablly different for them.   

A running back, In football, does not give up because someone touches him.  His legs keep moving instinctively.  Yes it is sad.  Feel that. But know this,  it is YOUR perspective..... which is WAY different from our loved ones,  should not stop you from being a supportive son or daughter.  We got this.   Have fun.   Make them smile.   "Normal" people are way more confused than sincere people who have demerits. We got this. 

We got this.   Periof.
Here are my favorite Links on communication, both verbal and non-verbal  >> [https://truthfulkindness.com/about/d-info/links-sx-strategies/dementia-communication/](https://truthfulkindness.com/about/d-info/links-sx-strategies/dementia-communication/) ; 

and you might also check the Links in "Comfort" and "Therapy" here >> [https://truthfulkindness.com/about/d-info/links-sx-strategies/](https://truthfulkindness.com/about/d-info/links-sx-strategies/) .
thanks! we got this😊
