I was in denial for a long time about my mothers dementia, it is a really bitter pill to swallow for family members. It may take FIL and husband longer than you.  There is no benefit in forcing this, only additional stress (in my experience). But they will have to face the music one day, if this is in fact what it is. They will need support as primary grievers. It must be very frustrating for you to have your concerns dismissed when you're just trying to help. 

Sounds like you have a supporter in the SIL. Get MIL to go in to doctors for something (not dementia related), and have SIL call doctor before hand and tell them her concerns. The doctor will be confidential, and possibly perform a cognitive test "as part of regular seniors check up protocol," then she may get a diagnosis, or at least have a benchmark to measure from if the condition is worsening. She should get tested for a UTI too to rule that out. The doctor should be well versed in this stuff... But a diagnosis is so important. She may not tell you about this diagnosis so if FIL or SIL  can be with her at the time, that is helpful but don't expect the doctor to talk to anyone about diagnoses other than her (of course). There are different interventive techniques but no cure if it is vascular dementia. Late stage alcoholism can also result in dementia, and I'm not sure what the prognosis of that is in terms of mitigation. 

There are a bunch of different types and causes for dementia (as I'm sure you know)... I'm sorry you're going through this, it's very difficult and frustrating to be in your position, it sounds like your care a lot about your family. Sounds like she has many biological children and a husband so for now she is at least protected in her home and they need to be the ones to take the responsibility for her moving forward. They will be forced to eventually if it is dementia, you can only live in denial for so long as things worsen. 

Other helpful advice for dealing with cognitive changes related to dementia (it's hard to get used to)
1. don't correct or point out mistakes/ repetition- this will just hurt them and make them upset, and it won't change their behaviour because it's not something you can change 
2. go with their reality 
3. be friendly and supportive 
4. don't set yourself on fire to keep someone else warm 

I'm sorry your family is going through this, it is very very stressful.
Oh my gosh, the crossword thing... That's what my sister said when I started trying to point out that there were issues with my mom. Does anyone actually look at the crosswords she's doing? My mom was "working in her book" but half the stuff she wrote was wrong or erased to the point the page tore.

As for the rest, I know of a husband who dresses his wife, does everything for her, and still is in denial she's got dementia. The daughter has been greeted at the door by her mom stark naked and ready to go shopping, the dad laughed it off like it was a joke. Give it time, I know it really is hard to wait and knowing that meds can help slow the process, don't wait too long, but just let the thoughts marinate a couple of months with them. Make notes of things you observe, then go back to them with it.
It seems like I agree with everyone here but I’ll provide some tips from personal experience. For a little background, I moved back in with my family due to covid and am the oldest of my 3 younger sisters. My mom is my grandma’s primary caretaker. Even with 6 people, it’s a lot and that’s not even including my mom’s siblings.
1. Get her diagnosed as fast as possible so you know what steps to take. My grandma wasn’t officially diagnosed till a little over a year ago but has been showing signs for years. The sooner you get diagnosed, the sooner you can get help. 
2. Everyone will have an opinion and tensions will rise over the care of her. I realized that the people who aren’t living with my grandma have the most opinions and seem to not realize how bad she is (right now she’s late stage 2 entering stage 3) if you know other people will have to be involved in her care, have a chat with them before and as she progresses be proactive (ie when should we admit her? Who has the final say? Who handles her finances? Ect)
3. Learn what she loves to do and relaxes her. as she starts to forget and not communicate clearly, keep a list for yourself of foods, music, shows that she requests and enjoys. As she progresses and looses communication skills, you’ll know what may help her and calm her down.
4. Look into getting a therapist. My grandma has significant trauma and a lot of it is now coming up as she’s losing her “filter.” She has also become depressed and it’s hard to find a therapist who specializes in Alzheimer’s patients
5. Be patient and give yourself breaks. This is going to be an extremely long journey. Don’t let yourself become the whole caretaker. As for help, be open with others, and get some alone time as needed.

Her symptoms sound very familiar to what my grandma has been doing. Good luck with everything and I hope you’re able to get the help she needs.
Consider approaching this from the sleep angle. One does not need 2-3 bottles of wine to sleep. And it doesn’t seem to help her, yet she continues to do it. Talk to them about a possible sleep disorder. Try to convince them to set up an appointment with her PCP to discuss this. Then contact the PCP and share what you’ve told us. The doctor can then look for signs of dementia as well as for signs of alcohol abuse and sleep disorders. It’s possible she has dementia, a sleep disorder like apnea, and also drinks way too much.
We can't help people if they won't accept help.
If the family aren't accepting then maybe you can phrase it as something different like emotional support or helping to decrease her stress so she can better enjoy her life.

Trauma is definitely linked to dementia, so treating trauma is super important. People with PTSD push their memories and feelings into the subconscious because they just can't deal with them and this ruins their foundation. Without a grounding in reality what are their chances to fight off cognitive decline?

I don't know if therapy is an option but I think it would help, if not anything that can get her off the wine so she can sleep better naturally would be ideal (drink helps you fall asleep but the quality of sleep is greatly diminished). Evening exercise like walking or yoga, guided meditations, creative time to process emotions.

People greatly underestimate the importance of managing stress. Crosswords are not enough, the foundation is managing emotions.
Yes, +1 to this advice to go to the doctor for a "routine" checkup but alert the doctor ahead of time about these issues. This is what we had to do for my grandma who was very much in denial that she had any real issue and refused help. She trusts her doctor, so my mother dropped off a letter with a kind of 'journal' of the week's symptoms, plus longer standing issues & concerns about safety. In the letter, she requested he perform a quick evaluation and then refer us to a memory clinic for official diagnosis, but to PLEASE be discreet and make it seem like it was his idea. Since my grandma trusts her doctor, we knew she'd at least indulge him even though she was very dismissive of us. Worked like a charm! Got the referral, because he suggested it she went along with it, and we found out she has pretty advanced dementia (not unsurprising to us, symptoms are similar or a touch worse than what you describe). Some of the family including her youngest son is still in denial that it's any cause for concern or that it's even true. Thankfully, my mom has POA and doesn't need his blessing. I'd recommend your SIL look into POA; it's good to have even if your elderly parents aren't currently sick/incapacitated because who knows what could happen on any given day. Family will be in denial for a while, that's just a common thread you'll see on here. As humans, we tend to try to ignore the bad & hope for the best, and furthermore in America (assuming...) we tend to put mental health & cognition in the backseat to physical health. You're doing the right thing by bringing it up. Keep a journal. Read some books for tips to help YOU and your SIL cope (can't recommend [this one](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1646113926/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o00_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1) enough). I know that often, even harder than dealing with the patient is dealing with everyone else denying there is cause for concern. Your concerns sound very valid and very much like dementia to me. Good luck.
The crossword thing is so frustrating isn’t it!! That’s NOT enough! And no, no one is checking her work, it could be all wrong
Thank you!! That is a great angle to try, I will think about how to do this, it’s really hard as she lives over 2 hours away from me and I don’t know her doctors.
I agree. I also think that forcing help tends to hurt relationships and come back in the 'helpers' face. It's tough, but sometimes one has to let go of what one can't control. Taking the supportive role and waiting until someone nearer to the MIL asks for help, and having the knowledge and research to provide that help, could be a good route to take. 

My partner is my support network and I don't know where I'd be without that unwavering support and acceptance of how I am coping with my mothers illness.
This is great advice, thanks so much
As long as you know who her doctor is, you can call them up and ask to speak to them. They can’t tell you much, but you can tell them all you want and they can put notes for it in your mom’s file.
Yes, I’m in the very awkward position of my SIL and I noticing massive problems, but our husbands refusing to accept it. Our husbands are MIL’s only two children, so if they don’t support us in this, no one will.
Ah I read it as SIL is the bio daughter.... I see now. 

That is so incredibly frustrating, especially when you have everyone’s best interests in mind. I hope something changes for them and for you!
