I give my dad the same answer when we have repeated conversations. I don’t make any kind of deal about him not remembering, but I don’t bother expending the energy to answer differently. The variety goes unnoticed, so I just save my energy to put into being pleasant.
I don’t think how you phrase it is going to help with retention. The information is simply not moving from short-term to long-term memory. You are doing great by acting like it’s the first time she asked the question-I know from experience how taxing that can be, but it’s such an important thing to do to preserve her dignity.
I don’t think it would. I sometimes choose a quick answer to frequent questions, for my own benefit. It doesn’t seem to make a difference in retention.  But I do try not to sound like I have already answered. I have thought about a notebook with the answers to frequently asked questions, then I could say... check your notes. But when I thought about it I realized it might make my mom feel bad to know the implications of the notebook. She watched 3 older family members go through this, and it‘s really hard for her to know it’s happening to her.
I tend to ask like it’s the first time because she gets more excited that way. Short answers I can tell make her more anxious and then she feels like she has to ask more.
I actually rephrase my answers for my own sanity. It makes it more like a game to me
Just remember that in her mind it IS the first time she has asked it. She wouldn’t be asking if she knew the answer. Reply accordingly. She deserves that.
My grandma has caught me doing this. I try and pretend it's the first time every time, but I must be a bad actor. Especially after a lot of answering in a short amount of time. She will ask me if she's already asked the question, and I reply, "yes, but I don't mind." And she says something like, "oh, that's not good. I think my memory is failing." I try to comfort her and tell her it's just part of getting older. The beauty of dementia is that she forgets and moves on pretty quickly. Then asks again.
changing the tone and choice of words can SOMETIMES help more than consistency ... but usually not in my experience for self and friends.

Surgery is a huge issue with dementia, and i have personally decided that even if it costs my life i will not undergo anesthesia, due to the possibly drastically increased dementia symptoms; for me i choose quality over quantity.

Repeat questions are a problem for all of us, for a variety of reasons.  i recently wrote this >>  [https://truthfulkindness.com/2021/02/21/repeat-questions/](https://truthfulkindness.com/2021/02/21/repeat-questions/) ;  .
I think at first I felt drained by repetition too, but now it's become natural and takes less energy. Maybe that's why I vary my answers now, I don't know. I'm with you though, I never let on that she's asked me the same thing already.
I agree. I'm sure I tortured her as a toddler with "why?" so this is apt payback. 🤣
I've thought about notes too, then decided not to for the same reason. I don't ever want her to feel like a burden.
I like the way you think!
