I understand that you are baffled. But have you discussed this with a neurologist or his doctor? 

This is really a question for a professional who knows your husband's complete medical history. FDG-PET is a complex method that needs to be interpreted correctly.
Dont remember how much PET scan is supposed to show DLB.  i know it usually does not show up much on MRI.  

DLB is very difficult diagnosis, because so much is dependent on the individual specialist's knowledge in a little-understood type of dementia.  But many of us just live with diagnosis of Mild Cognitive Impairment with Lewy Body symptoms.  

 

The following drugs may cause sedation, motor impairment or confusion:

* Benzodiazepines, tranquilizers like diazepam and lorazepam
* Anticholinergics (antispasmodics), such as oxybutynin and glycopyrrolate
* Older antidepressants
* Certain over-the-counter medications, including diphenhydramine and dimenhydrinate.
* Some medications, like anticholinergics, amantadine and dopamine  agonists, which help relieve parkinsonian symptoms, might increase  confusion, delusions or hallucinations.

The important thing is to live with the constant knowledge of medical sensitivities to certain medications.  This is CRUCIAL !  We Keep the medical card from LBDA in my wallet (mostly useless) and my husband-care-partner's wallet (crucial).  When my family doctor gives a prescription he used-to ask me to run it by my pharmacist friend who now has DLB, but now the friend's abilities have declined to the point i no longer do that -- but my doctor is now familiar with Lewy Body sensitivities himself  (which i very much appreciate him taking that time to become familiar with a little-understood condition)!  Generally speaking, also Avoid OTC treatments that say for "Night-Time" or "BedTime" (like night-time cough or cold remedies, or even Tylenol PM).

DownLoad the Medication Glossary pdf from >> [https://www.lbda.org/treatment-options/](https://www.lbda.org/treatment-options/) .
I don’t I’m sorry to say but I’d recommend posting this again at another time. I think it didn’t get any traction more bc of the timing (Friday night) than anything else. Sending love & hope for an  accurate diagnosis!
I’ve sent a message to his doctor. I think the upcoming neurocognitive evaluation will reveal a lot. He had one evaluation already that said DLB. Our next appt with the doctor isn’t until July. 

I guess I was hoping for something definitive. I wonder if his family thinks I’m exaggerating the extent of his decline. It’s so hard to take care of him and maybe I put too much on having the PET scan validate my experience.

Edit: his doctor is a neurologist at Barrow in Phoenix. He’s a smart guy. However he had his nurse call to say the results were normal and I got a copy of the report as well.
I think a meeting/discussion with his doctor is the best way to go about it. Interpreting these results for neurodegenerative disorders requires very specialized knowledge.

From my limited knowledge (saying that as a neuroscience researcher and medical student) I would suggest that the MRI gives some definite answers. The findings on MRI could to a large extent explain his issues. It is possible to have aspects of Parkinsonism without having "classical" PD.

It is absolutely not my intent to offend you, but honestly and sadly it is not possible to definitely diagnose some of these conditions unless a post mortem examination is performed. 

I work in a research setting investigating changes in Parkinson and Alzheimer brains. There is a often a large degree of overlap, and often findings that do not fit with the "classical" findings in the literature. 

This does bear the question of whether a 100% certain diagnosis is necessary or even possible - I lean towards the concept that a diagnosis that is specific enough to give the patient the correct care and support is acceptable. But of course it is hard to not get answers or the answers you expect.

I think support and understanding from his family is very important if it's possible. If you feel they don't believe you, perhaps they should see for themselves or involve themselves a little? I have had dementia in my family and worked on dementia wards and I honestly think people who haven't been close to people with dementia just don't understand how hard it is.

I wish you all the best and I hope the neurologist can clear up the findings.
Thank you for your kind words. I’m not offended at all by the statement that an autopsy is the only way to definitively diagnose. 

I read that vascular dementia is not often seen on a PET scan. 

My husband’s family ignored his decline for 2 years. He’s a long-time friend and I took on his care. I felt that a dog was treated better than he was. It’s inhumane, and many people don’t realize that dementia, while common, isn’t normal and there are treatments for it, especially early on.
