Can he sort things for you, like groups of bolts or nails (if safe to do so) or anything else you can pull out of the basement, that he might think is being helpful to you? You can buy different size/colour marrettes he could separate for your “wiring project,” or anything that might connect him to his previous work or hobbies.
We dealt with this with my dad. We would suggest some things to him (with no mention that we knew he couldn't do them) and usually he'd be content to "focus" on that task for a bit. For example, we'd ask if he wanted to color so we'd set him up with a coloring book and markers and he'd try to color (draw on the paper with the caps on, etc). Same with watercolor; he'd just dip a pen in an empty glass and drag it across the paper. My dad also like to "play" the piano so we set him up with a keyboard and he would just hit the keys (even without it turned on he liked to mess with the keys). Basically we just played along that he could do the things we'd suggest. I think at some point we won't be able to do that anymore.
I’m so sorry to hear this. My family member I’m caregiving for is 95 and he hasn’t declined this badly yet, but I’m anticipating this is what my life will look like in the near future. Is he able to do crossword puzzles or coloring? I think just trying to go down lists of things that are simple and can occupy his mind for blocks of time may be helpful for both him and you. Other than that, I think this is just the way this disease works eventually, so sorry to hear, I know it’s frustrating.
maybe you could read him books or flip through magazines/the newspaper with him. so he can still be entertained without actively having to Do something
I hear you. My father is like a human sponge of need and it’s a little terrifying, because it’s completely unsustainable. My father will busy himself thinking he’s reading and thinking he’s writing (with a shocking amount of volume and little coherency) but he needs to talk about it and talk and talk and just demands constant attention. We just got him into a residence a month ago and it’s been a sad relief. When I hear people talking about pretend colouring my heart sinks. How long can this go on for? My father is 86.  Old Photo albums  have been godsend if you have any of those!! Best of luck to you.
What about some playdough or modeling clay?  It would definitely be a tactile activity.  Could he be sitting outside with a bird feeder nearby, some peanuts to feed the squirrels? Leaf or flower pressing, maybe make a collage?  I can only have window visits and calls with my Dad right now, but those are some things I'd like to try, it's been hard finding him things to do, you're not alone.
This is something we struggle with too. My grandmother has always been a very active, busy woman. She hates sitting doing nothing, but she has essential tremors and isn't able to easily do everything she used to. We have a $1 basket filled with 50 washcloths she can fold. We have discovered that even hand towels are too big. She likes up clean, so I have her help me rinse dishes.

The other night we played Candy Land after she saw the box and asked what it was. Every turn, i had to prompt her to pick a card to know which color to move to. She usually wanted to move backwards on the board. 

I finally got her to color in a large print adult coloring book. She picked one that said Love ☮️ Peace. She colored LOV orange and a few flowers before she stopped.

I tried to get her to do a word search in a kids activity book. She couldn't find the words even when I showed here where it began.

She can sometimes read large print by herself, but she's started tearing up papers, pamphlets, magazines of left with them too long.

TV rarely holds her interest. I have to actively watch with her and make comments on what the wild animals did. Or did she see that dress or whatever.
Maybe he can do seated excercise without standing and moving around? There are even groups for that. It is designed for the elderly or in general people who are less mobile...

Maybe that is something to look into?

Other than that...

Just experiencing nature, seeing the world, going on walks...

Music could be really amazing too and limiting TV time as much as possible.

Also lots of creative things, maybe.

Also when he asks you what can he do, don't tell him 'nothing'. He can still do stuff even though it might get more and more limited. 

What did he like to do before? What can he still do instead of looking at the limits that are there and working with that. Don't let him feel your own negative feelings towards this situation too much... He absorbs it.

It looks like apathy to me...

Also yes, it sounds normal to me.

Other than that show him that he can still do things as much as possible...
Both my grandmothers had Alzheimers.  One was very active prior, the other one not so much.  One thing they really enjoyed was hearing about "my life".  In the beginning, it was hard on me because they would ask the same question every five minutes or so.  I would repeat myself with the truth, and it got really hard on me.  However, what I found out (at least for them) was that imagining crazy answers really worked well.  It kept me on my toes to create a story line on the spot and it actually kept them entertained and even laughing occasionally.  So when they asked me if I was "courting any old gal yet", I might respond with something like "yes ma'am, but we just met two weeks ago.  She is a professional wrestler from Hawaii and used to surf professionally."  This would get them to look at me strangely, but then they would ask something about wrestling or surfing (neither of which I or them know much about) or Hawaii (never been there).  We would have wonderful five minute conversations about "my life" that was purely fictional.  And sometimes they would say something like "Well I'm so glad you found someone".  Or if they asked what I did for a living, I would try to say something that they might think was neat and trigger more questions "I'm a professional fisherman on a radio variety show".  My parents got mad at me for lying at first, but then when they saw how my grandmom reacted, they got it.  Every five or ten minutes, my grandmom would ask the original question again and I would come up with some outlandish answer.  This kept them entertained, especially when they were physically unable to do much.  It also made me not as sad because we were kind of living in a temporary fictional reality and having real engagement.  I'm not sure if this works for everyone, but now I have great memories of interacting with my grandmoms even in the late stages.  And after some of the stories, especially the ones about my "careers" or "loves" or whatever, they would smile and say how proud they were of me.  Even though their pride was based on a fictional story, it really was a great way to pass the time for both of us.
Honestly this may sound completely ridiculous but have you thought about marijuana? It could help with the anxiety and general malaise, plus it sure makes the time pass
A small suggestion, when he asks “what can I do”, please don’t say “nothing”. Rather, ask him, “what would you like to do”? See if he comes up with something. If HE says “nothing” then he may calm. If you tell him he can’t do anything that implies he’s useless. Granted, he may be of little use but it’s about feeling he is of use. I do agree with the suggestions of art, any kind of art. If he asks “what can I do”, you can say that he could paint/draw/color you a picture of something. You could also ask him to tell you a story or sing you a song (play music he might sing along to. Praise him like you would a small child who made art for you. Art could give him a sense of purpose and use. It can be abstract as heck and still be pretty or cool. Maybe play his favorite music while he’s creating. Make it fun if you can. Also agree with the reading and stories if he uses to read.
Does he respond to music? Maybe try getting some Bluetooth headphones for him so you can play some of his old favorite songs from your phone. If he doesn’t pull them off it might entertain him as he has nothing “to do”. I’ve also found that if regular TV is boring, I can usually find something on YouTube that’s related to something my mom once enjoyed. Usually live performances since music seems to resonate more deeply.
I hear you. My dad is the same. He complains that he's bored but either refuses to do any activity we come up with or tries something and panics because he can't do it. I think, depending on where the dementia is attacking their brain, they can develop a lot of apathy and lose the ability to take any initiative. I think a lot of these old dudes were also workaholics who didn't really have hobbies, so you can't get them interested in anything but work-related activities - which they can't do anymore. Natch.

Unfortunately I don't really have any solutions. My dad watches a lot of TV. Sometimes he'll agree to walk with someone down the driveway to check the mail, or help put recycles in the bin. Once in a while we get him to agree to short outings, like going to the ice cream stand. But mostly, he watches TV.
This might work. Thanks!
Crossword puzzles are a negative. He can’t even do word finds anymore. Coloring might be interesting, though. I could give that a shot. 

Best wishes to you and yours. 💜 Thank you.
I’m a patient consultant at a medical marijuana facility and I don’t think it’s a good idea. CBD, sure. But not THC.
I never say nothing. My dad, on the other hand... Ugh. It’s complicated.
Sort buttons by color? I have a small jar of buttons that I may add many more to to make into a larger collection just so I have something like this for my mom to do when she progresses.
For now jigsaw puzzles and coloring keep her busy.
