We told my dad that he had placed himself on a waiting list and his apartment was finally available. By thinking it was his idea, he was excited for the move. That was to a senior place with a memory care floor. When we moved him to memory care, a friend took him to lunch and we recreated his entire room on the locked floor. By then he didn't know the difference. Not sure that will work in your case. Good luck.
We just moved my dad, also with Lewy Body, to memory care. He is annoyingly smart — he knows when we are lying and really gets agitated when he “figures things out”. We had to just be honest with him. I don’t recommend that for you, though, as it seems your dad would be too anxious. 

You know him best — trust your judgement. Avoid his triggers. Make it exciting. If you think he will know something is different, then you should come up with a narrative to help his brain justify that. For us, it was “we need a space with 24/7 care that alleviates mom”, as she is in declining health. He supported that.

The things that have worked have been visiting often, saying things like “wow I love this place, they bring jello whenever you want!” or “everyone here is so nice” or “look, dad, this artwork is beautiful”. He seems to have picked up the good vibes, at least. 

We are only a little over one week in, and already having some inevitable hiccups. Feel free to pm me if you’d like to talk more.

Don’t forget. This is an un-winnable war. Giving him your best is all you can do.
My mom always loved to travel, so our story was that we were going to go take a look at the new hotel, and she'd got on vacation there for a few days.
My mom's sister had that decision made for her by her oldest son (versus her younger son who lived with her), who lives hundred of miles away. She ended up sleeping for 16+ hours per day, barely coherent when my mom and I would visit (pre-pandemic), and reciting her address, along with asking for her younger son, continuously as a way of communicating where she wanted to be, not there. She passed away three weeks ago, still wanting to be at her home of over 40 years.

Edit - Oh, fuck off! She was very unhappy when she finally passed, especially given the circumstances of the pandemic. You have an issue, then raise it directly if you have the courage.
I have been a caregiver and recently started an adult family home. The transition stage is mostly challenging and requires you to keep visiting him often for the 1st few weeks and then reduce the visits as he settles in. You can try to convince him that you are all moving to the ltc then leave to go shopping and come back after a day or two or even a week.
I’m planning on asking my dad’s neurologist or his PCP for some kind of medication to calm him down if he starts getting violent. (He lives with me right now but when he goes into elder care, the people who work there will have to deal with him too. It’ll be better if he’s not physically a jerk to anyone.)
I thought about it for a long time, then I steeled myself for the truth. I am the most qualified to take care of dementia Dad. I don't sleep most nights because of his wandering, falling, etc., I'll sleep even less wondering if he's getting the care he deserves from an absolute stranger making minimum wage.
Great thinking !
Thank you for the input. I do think my dad would get really anxious, be in a lot of distress, and act out (including running away or hitting people) if we told him ahead of time, based on his anxiety and behavior in general and how he responds to any kind of medical appointment in particular, especially since his mind seems to warp even innocuous things into scary things. Two days ago he had a full-on panic attack because I asked whether he wanted a bologna sandwich or a chicken sandwich for lunch. (Same question every day, but this time something somehow freaked him out. Having to make a decision, maybe?)

He does know something's up, but not what, and given how hard it is to get him to understand stuff generally, I don't think we'll be able to get him to understand this. He has been asking about going home or about when he's moving out of here, so maybe we can tell him we found him a place. Another alternative I've been thinking about is telling him the doctor wants him to go to rehab to get stronger. My mom was just in rehab after a fall, so maybe he'll understand it, and fibbing a little by representing it as temporary may help?

I hate doing this - placing him, lying to him, all of it - but he's so anxiety-prone and delusional and confused that I don't know if he'll even understand what's happening, much less be able to respond semi-rationally. Fortunately, he no longer recognizes home as home, so maybe it won't be too traumatic.
This is terrible advice.  I would not want my loved one in a place that encourages you to not visit.  Wherever you send your Dad please visit as often as you possibly can.  You don't know how sad and lonely these places are when you don't have family visiting.  This pandemic is killing seniors via lonlieness and lack of stimulation, their mental health deteriorates far quicker.

And you will want to check up and make sure hes being well looked after.  My father is in a good place, but we've had to keep after them to monitor his UTIs, diet and fluid intake, make sure some well meaning caregiver doesn't unplug his phone etc..
Talk to your dads PCP. My moms doctor put her on Seroquel/quetiapine. It’s helped tremendously. She sleeps through the night most nights. It’s actually brought her back alittle bit. She can actually speak to me in the mornings. And knows who I am.
Okay that makes sense. By the sounds of it, would any narrative help at all? If he worries about a sandwich choice, he would likely worry about any lie, truth, or in between you tell him about his move. Of course, I know the goal is the best possible move for him. But just want to ground you that even the best, perfect story will have challenges. 

Recently we had to add Quetiapine during the day to help manage my dad’s reactions since he was becoming violent. Is your dad on any medication to ease his agitation? 

My only advice in regards to your story is that he might not trust “doctors orders” if he has built up a reality in which doctors are bad given his reactions to the dentist. But, I like the idea that you’re framing it for his benefit (rehab) and calling it temporary. We did that too, and it’s helping us get through the next week. When he asks me if this is “forever” I say things like “who knows what the future holds but I hope not! We’re thankful you’re here and safe for now.” That doesn’t feel like a lie.
We tried that, he had hallucinations, bad ones. His doctor prescribed 3 different kinds of anti psychotic drugs, which oddly enough, made him psychotic, and he is not psychotic nor aggressive, he wanders, constantly. He sleeps for 2 to 3 hrs and, he's 'good'. On most nights he wanders around the house exploring, knocking over chairs, tearing plants out of pots. He has no idea where he is, even though he is at home. He remembers his family when he sees us, then promptly forgets us, when we leave. It's been 5 yrs like this, he can't dress himself, we administer his meds, we make his meals, he can feed himself, thankfully. He wants to have conversation, we try to listen even though It's mostly, gibberish. I know that one day I'll miss even the gibberish, right now, I need to see this through to the end, whenever that is. His doctor ecently told us It's a crime that he has dementia because otherwise, he is in good health for a man of 87 yrs of age. If he would sleep through the night, everything else is manageable, I need to walk this road beside him.
Well don’t give up. Have you tried the over the counter sleep meds like the ones made by NyQuil ? One thing I’ve learned is you have to look after yourself first.
