My grandma was like that in the early stages and sometimes it was due to a uti. Other times I believe it was pure anger and frustration over the reality of her situation. She’s less angry now that she’s less aware. 

She also refused meds and food. I just left snacks out and she eventually forgot about her hunger strike and ate. I’d also just put out her meds and she eventually took them as well. 

Good luck!!
Since daylight savings time I’ve seen a big decline in my grandmother to the point I pull the shades n brighten the rooms almost at 4pm now. 92 sweet old lady who never swore or talked bad on anybody turns into F this F that kiss my A*@ and she straight sup swats at people. Go to give gram a hug goodbye forgetting it’s that time of day and catch a 92 year old boney knuckle hand swat with wedding ring to the face out of no where will have u re thinking life. Level of violence and she’s even threatened that if we didn’t get her cookies right this minute that she would hire somebody to fix us up real nice and she will have a new babysitter as early as tmw ....granny was a mafia boss in another life apparently. It’s a sick disease. I think it’s a fantastic idea you have the puppy now.
Any major change is super difficult for them and can cause changes in behavior.  Also, did they change any meds?
My mother had a a terrible 4 weeks when moved to memory care.  Nasty to me, nasty to the staff, refusing to eat or take medications.  The F word went flying until the air was blue.  

If a medical cause to the violent behavior (like a UTI) has been ruled out, then medications for behavior can be tried.  It took awhile for my mother- anti-anxiety medications turned things into a real horror show so they were stopped.  Then a mood stabilizer and antidepressant were added.   Things stayed bad and I was beginning to privately question if her provider knew what he was doing.  But, he increased her mood stabilizer just a bit and wow.  My mother was so much better and happier.  It must be miserable for the patient to feel so angry and confused and we didn't want  her to be miserable.

I'm writing all this to let you know that medications can work but it might take a few weeks to find out the right combination that works for your mother.  It's so hard to witness violent behavior or suffer the brunt of it.  But yes, that first month or so in memory care can make you wonder what the heck is going on.
Thanks to you all for your sage input.  Mom does indeed have a UTI, is at a different hospital, and has been referred for a Geri-Psych consult next week.  The hospitalist, like many of you, suggested the change in living place combined with the UTI might have triggered the extreme behavior.  Our doc has suggested palliative care moving forward, so that we don’t get in this revolving door of UTI-extreme behavior-hospital, which can’t be helpful to her mental state.  Added to the fun and games is the discovery of a ginormous abdominal aortic aneurysm in Mom, which my brother and I have decided to do nothing about (every physician we’ve spoken with is entirely on board with our thinking BTW), so it’s a wait and see game.  But we do want whatever time is left to be calm and as happy as possible for her.

If I get no other opportunity, I do want to express my appreciation to each and every member of this subreddit.  This has been an island of sanity for me for the last year or so, whether it’s to empathize with your stories or get advice from you.  I am in your debt and hope I can repay someday.
You may need to find a mental hospital to get her meds fixed.  We had to commit my dad for a week and they were the ones who got him set up on the pills that helped him out.  Talk to the doctors because they need to change meds and I’d think memory care would do that.
