I hope the drs get you some answers soon. Sorry your mom isn’t doing well. My grandma’s hallucinations came on pretty quickly and haldol helped for about a year.
Make sure the doctors check and double check for a UTI these can make hallucinations in dementia patients worse.
Just want to echo what another commenter said: get her checked for UTIs. 

But... Yes. Halllucinations can come on quickly. My mum's friend took her out for a day, an unusual day for my mum, and the moment she got home she started seeing a man who was robbing her and bossing her around. 

Medicine can help. If it isn't a UTI, ask about that. 

Also, unless you need to contradict her for safety reasons, maybe try leaning into it a little. The house is filled with thieving children? Next time she's seeing them, throw a big fit. "That's it! That's it! When we agreed that you could be here we never said you could be so loud or that you could STEAL from us. Get out! Get out! Shoo! Scram! And don't you dare come back!" Then open the front door and watch them go. Ask "I can't see, are they all gone?" If you get a yes, close the door and include your loved one in the sense of mission accomplished. "You were so right that they were getting to be too much! I'm glad they're gone. Good riddance!" If they haven't all left, ask your loved one where the last of them is hiding and literally chase them out. "I don't see him! Point him out!" Or, "come help me chase him out!"

So best case scenario? You'll be the hero who chased away the thieves. You may feel goofy about it, but you'll be on the same "team" and your loved one will feel seen and validated. You win a day or two until the next halllucination creeps in. Worst case? Your LO doesn't see your efforts as effective and the halllucination persists. So... Nothing changes.
Not sure of her diagnosis but hallucinations often happen with Lewy Body Dementia (and/or UTIs or other infections)
Dad died of cancer when i was a young adult, and the pain meds created behaviors that ((Looking backwards from my own current situation living with dementia)) APPEAR to have triggered hallucination-type behaviors in the last 6 months of his Life.  -- not general dementia symptoms but yes to hallucinations and active hallucinations acting out his reality (cleaning and putting tools away, along with working on cars, then closing the doors of his work truck).

Actually it was probably encouraging to his general condition, because those activities were always important in his life, and without the pain medication he was unable to do those movements.

i dont know how much those hallucinations are similar to Lewy Body hallucinations, but here is an article i wrote (and reviewed by a neurologist) on Hallucinations >>  [https://truthfulkindness.com/2020/01/26/hallucination-types/](https://truthfulkindness.com/2020/01/26/hallucination-types/) ;
I can’t say for sure as I’m no doctor but the hallucinations could be caused by the drugs not mixing properly and the side effects were exaggerated and made worse via the dementia. I know from experience that sometimes the side effects of drugs after they do some bad stuff can last for awhile. I personally OD’d on somewhere around 45-80 mg of dexidrine back in January of last year, and I experienced a bunch of symptoms but ones that are relevant are that I was hallucinating of a shadow man and his shadow bird in my house. I don’t remember exactly tho, as I kinda completely blacked out after awhile. But the hallucinations stayed up into recently, I would see a black hand grabbing on my bedroom door as of trying to peer around the doorframe or I would see someone I know out of the corner of my eye, look back and they aren’t there. Tbh the paranoia never fully went away, in fact I’m feeling it now lol. Anyhow, it’s entirely possible that the bad reaction from the meds a bit ago could have messed her up a bit and then the dementia made it worse. I could be wrong tho again I’m not a doctor and this is just a theory based off my personal experiences
Wow, I realize that telling her nothing is there doesn’t help, it just makes her distrust me. Hadn’t tried validating the craziness yet. 

 Sofar doctors go over her meds and pass the issue off on someone else. Last thing I want to do is bring her to the mental ward for an evaluation, she will never trust us again. But it’s to the point where she doesn’t trust us anyway. She threatened this morning to take my daughter and go hide in a hotel until we kick all the imaginary people out of the house. 
 I had my ex wife come remove my daughter from the situation just in case. Now I need to figure out how to handle this.
Yep I’m pretty sure it was caused by a combination of drugs somewhere, her psychiatrist and primary care both believe so, took her off quite a few, added an antidepressant and possibly will be adding an anti anxiety med once the doctors agree on what she needs. Just had her evaluated for hospice care and will be starting with some in home help. Hopefully we can keep her out of inpatient care. This is probably the hardest thing I have ever had to deal with, definitely one of the hardest.
I’m very sorry, it must be very difficult for you
