Im a dementia coach and social worker. I would say, perhaps you could try to have a gentle discussion with her. However, she may not remember having it. I would recommend having a conversation with her during a moment of lucidity. That way, you will know its mom you are talking to. This piece of advice will save you as a caregiver...Its easier to step into her world, then it is to get her to step into ours. Please dont hesitate to DM me if you have any other questions. You are not alone.
One of the saddest doctor's visits I had was taking my mother to the neurologist's office.  He kindly, but directly said that my mom had significant mental decline with the dementia.   She is a retired medical professional and was sitting there looking at him as he talked as if she was taking it all in with understanding and he added,  She will remember none of this conversation.   

She didn't.   She has no recollection of of the testing, the CT scan, the multiple visits or why she had a new prescription from a doctor she never heard of.    She does, however, think she must have had a stroke because "I'm not thinking straight" but she also thinks that the memory care facility she's at is for everyone around her and certainly not for her!

In my experience, the patients know, for awhile at least, that something is wrong and they aren't at their best.  But  as things progress, they just don't remember anything.  My mom has no recollection of any of her doctors or what medications she's on.  Best to say something in agreement with your mom if she says she's not feeling like herself- I usually say "Old age is a tough business, but you are doing a darn good job of it no matter what happens!"  Or I say, "You had some memory loss but that's expected at your age so you are doing pretty well all things considered."  And that's something she can agree with- that with age comes a lot that does suck.
I think it differs from person to person. My MIL insisted there was nothing wrong with her all the way to the end. Pissed  at her whole "rotten family" for putting her in a memory care facility for no damn reason. She was told she had alzheimers, to which she replied "what's that? I never heard of that? (yes she did.) But then there are those who admit they feel "off" and want to understand why.
My story with my mom is almost identical.  She's 75 had a diagnosis of mild cog impairment that recently was changed to dementia/early stage Alzheimer's after a repeat neurocognative exam ordered by her neurologist (last exam was 1 year ago).  I also pay her bills, collect mail, got her an auto med dispenser for med management.  She's constantly complaining of pain in her head.  I've also heard her say her "head is full".  She's always looking for an explanation for her thinking problems.  "I'm still smart but my memory is shit". She forgets she's got Alzheimer's.  I used to avoid talking about it to avoid both upsetting her and also her argumentative behavior that has occurred recently.  But I've become bolder now.  I just state the facts when it comes up.  "You've had multiple CT scans.  Nothing shows up.  The results of your last test showed dementia."  I avoid saying Alzheimer's because dementia is somehow more acceptable to her.  It's not easy facing the facts for anyone, but like you, I wanted her to have a say in future decisions and that's how I presented it. I talked to her about picking out her future assisted living place.  "Mom, you have always liked to do the smart thing and plan ahead.  Will you help me do that?"  We visited a few.  Eventually she just clicked with the staff at one, we got her on the list for the next available garden home in a senior care community. So now we have a plan.  

Her doctors weren't reluctant to give the diagnosis.  I keep notes on significant events in moms progression of the disease.  It helped the docs to be sure of the diagnosis.  When mom found out she cried and said "it's just not fair".  It would be easier if she couldn't understand it but she knows what it means.  The only consolation is in the 2 months since receiving the Alzheimer's diagnosis she has forgotten she has it.  It's a terrible disease to have and even worse to watch your loved one go through.
My husband was diagnosed with Lewy Body Dementia and I speak openly about it with him. He had “memory issues” and I was the first to say the word Dementia. I don’t believe he knows how bad the prognosis is, I’ve quietly started preparing, such as buying an adjustable bed and  having a security system installed so I’ll know if he leaves the house. 

It’s important for him to know because he needs to exercise to slow the rate of decline if that’s even possible. As well, I convinced him to postpone cataract surgery because of the risk of anesthesia making him worse. 

Right away, I printed off a Durable POA and added a paragraph about health care decisions and HIPAA and we went to the bank and had it notarized. His 401k required a special form and that had to be notarized as well. 

He gets angry sometimes and says I’m treating him like a boarder or like a child. However, in only a few months, he’s gone from being able to stay home alone for a few hours to not staying alone to needing supervision so he doesn’t do something really crazy. 

My biggest issue right now is managing my own health. I’ve started to have problems from the constant stress. I’m looking into respite care. He was very resistant to the idea until I had a severe asthma attack and while he didn’t help at all, he at least somehow understood that I need help.
My mom was upset when told and then promptly forgot. She will say “slight memory issues that are normal as you age” and refuses to believe more, even when shown it in writing. She says because the doctors say “good job” after tests that means she’s fine. 

We had hoped to get her to understand so that she could help with life choices besides “I will live in my home alone until I die” as we do not have the physical or financial means for that, but she simply will not hear or accept it. She will only admit to having anxiety.
I’m the husband of a wife who’s mom is VERY recently struggling with dementia and it has escalated and gotten quite serious very quickly.  Would you mind if I DM you a few questions?  I may just be unloading or venting but we are all very lost in this.
My mom finally said something was wrong with her head about a month or so before she died. Before that, there were lots of mentions of bull feces when we tried to broach the subject.
The wording on planning ahead is a good idea.

I'd suggest OP use the wording to make sure healthcare surrogate documents / healthcare POA, and financial POA is or gets all set up.

Even more important than having her fully participate *now* is to *now* get a clear idea of what her wishes are and who can speak for her, and have all that properly documented and witnessed.

(An elder law attorney can help you with that, but they're likely to use standard state forms that you can download from your state's websites, so if you do have an attorney help, even then you can start by already having her wishes understood and written down to the extent she already has a clear idea of what they are and can articulate them--just to make things easier on the attorney, and cheaper.  That is, if you are going to use an attorney and can start things off by having 90% of the information he needs already collated for him, all the better.)
Yes!  Hiring an elder law attorney is essential to YOUR peace of mind.  The expense is worth every penny!  I had previously gone with mom to get just the Durable POA done and that was it.  She already had a will.  That POA has been a lifesaver for me!  Initially, I struggled with using it, but it's come in handy when dealing with something as simple as paying her bills.  Many places wouldn't talk to me without that POA on file.  Eventually, I used it to allow me to set up a trust for her investments.  That was a struggle because I felt like I was taking her money away.  I wasn't though, I was just protecting it and will use it as needed for her care.  A month after setting it up she fell for a scam and lost several thousand dollars and has since fallen for 3 more scams.  Although she's lost cash in her bank account (I left a small amount in her name) it's been a comfort to both me and her to know the bulk of it is protected in the trust and she can't get it out without my help.
Of course, you can DM me anytime.
