Yep start with an ACAT assessment. Be there when she has the assessment and make everything sound worse than it is, because it will be by the time everything is in place and it saves having to reassess. Get Power of Attorney if you haven’t. I also recommend being made her contact person for Centrelink, then you can link her aged care info to your My Gov account and see the assessment info and access the care codes as they’re released. It take about 2 years for the full home care package to come through (if she’s eligible) but they give you interim codes that cover a lot of in-home assistance. The bureaucracy is a nightmare but keep at it because you will find good people in the system who can help you. 
I’ve been through it all with my dad and am now starting the process for my mum.
Have you contacted ACAT? That needs to be your first move. They access everyone before they are approved for home care help or going into a nursing home that can assist her. Also have you got POA? 
For a formal diagnosis of dementia you need to go to ACAT who access her. Also can you speak with her GP? If you have POA it will make that easier otherwise her privacy might be protected and you won’t be able to help her easily. But speaking to her GP will still help in altering them to be aware of her situation. 

Not sure what you mean by she is demented (?) in her behaviour but not physically - do you mean she is still able to walk talk shower feed herself? But mentally she appears to be effected? Has she been diagnosed?
Watched this happen with my Dad over the last few years.

Agree with everything that's been said.

Power of attorney, definitely. If she has a will and it needs changing or updating, it needs to be done while she can answer questions unaided and uncoached, usually a one on one with the lawyer...

ACAT - My Dad had it done when hospitalized with Chest Pains. Mum finally admitted to all his issues, she'd been holding off getting help and they damn near hospitalized her too, she was so stressed. From the hospital, he went straight into aged care... It's a good facility that takes his pension in full and runs an additional cost per day - but he needs it...

Alcoholism is something that we didn't contend with, And sadly it may make your case more difficult... My ex wife is a drunk, and absolutely nothing stops her getting a drink, and it's always someone else's fault...
