Hi, sorry to hear he’s going through this. Here is a good explanation on false delusions and beliefs and some advice on how to deal with paranoia.  

https://www.dementiauk.org/get-support/understanding-changes-in-behaviour/false-beliefs-and-delusions-in-dementia/

And this from Alzheimer’s UK has a useful section on Accusing and Delusions. 

https://www.alzheimers.org.uk/about-dementia/symptoms-and-diagnosis/symptoms/accusing
Hi, also see if you can get him checked for undiagnosed schizophrenia. My husband and I learned from my grandfather’s military records he got discharged for schizophrenia. And so many things clicked together. The main things I have learned, even if they don’t have the additional mental disorder, do not look them in the eye when talking (aggressive and dominant like with animals), do not try to show proof or evidence of how wrong their paranoia is, just speak kindly, lovingly, and continue normal routine as much as possible. It may take some quick thinking to find way to get them to take their medicine or talk to you. They WILL say awful things during these times, put some headphones in and let them talk it out, give them some space to watch tv or do what they enjoy. Put locks on the doors and monitor them on a household camera if you have a system in your home. Let them calm down. They get VERY tired eventually and will just sleep at some point for many hours and then they kind of reset and wake up feeling worn out.
Also try to keep up with things that make them feel good to avoid these behaviors. When my husband misses a week to shave my grandfather, he gets his paranoia because he feels neglected and alone. So the cycle begins. If we say no to too many things (it’s COVID times and he’s 94, so a lot of things he can’t really do right now), he feels sad and alone. Try to understand their triggers and things that contribute to them.
Our natural instinct is to explain reality and try to convince them that everything is fine. We have to suspend that instinct and “go with” them instead of trying to “bring back”. Some of the articles folks posted touch on this a bit. What kind of things is he getting paranoid about?
Reassure him w authority that the police took care of it.
Hey, im so sorry about your grandfather. I would usually let my mother explain what happened, she would say that someone broke in and tried to hurt her. At first Id say we checked the cameras and no one came in and everything is fine, but she would get offended and say im not crazy i know what i saw. So instead we started just saying that whoever came in is gone and she’s safe and nothing else is going to happen. It would calm her down enough to start talking about something else and change the subject as soon as possible... she doesn’t get them as much now, shes been pretty calm recently. wishing you the best
lithium orotate? it's calming
Don't argue. Reassure and redirect, but try not to argue. That's obviously hard if not impossible if it's a safety issue - you can't really play along with a delusion that somebody's about to come and kill him. If you can, though, try to get into the delusion and find a way to work with it. If he thinks there's a warrant out for his arrest, print a letter on official-looking letterhead stating that the warrant has expired, or have someone he doesn't know call and claim they're from the police department and state that the warrant has been discontinued.

Also, work with a geriatric psych to adjust his meds, because if the delusions are causing him distress, very often he'll be impossible to reassure and redirect, as you've experienced. Meds can include anti-psychotics as well as anti-anxiety. Sometimes, it almost seems like the anxiety feeds into the delusions, so if you can get that under control, you're halfway there. CBD helped us, just make sure to give it to him on a consistent schedule so you can try to prevent the agitation BEFORE he really builds up a head of steam and is un-calm-able and won't take anything you try to give him.
Thank you so much it was quite useful in understanding what is happening with him .
Just looked up this as well, has some more practical things you can do. 

https://www.alzheimers.org.uk/about-dementia/symptoms-and-diagnosis/delusions
