Heck yes. When my grandma moved into memory care I got my life back. She finally got the care and supervision she needed. She could get her hair done and get a good bath. Her medication was stable. I could sleep at night knowing she was comfortable and safe.  We were able to have a friendship when I visited. She loves the caretakers dearly and they love her. I never dreamed that was possible because she was so nasty towards me. That shows what the correct environment can do for someone with dementia.
We moved my MIL from Independent Living to Assisted Living (she's not quite to the level of needing Memory Care, yet) and we went from visiting the ER every couple of weeks to just once in an entire year.  She was falling out of bed, falling in the bathtub, getting lost in hallways and all of that has stopped.  If she loses her phone, someone is there to help her find it.  She doesn't skip meals or meds.  It's been a huge relief.
Just moved my beautiful momma this morning and we all are reeling. But also wondering some of the very same things you are. Good luck to you.
My Mum just moved into dementia care after being in low care for the last year. The first week has been rough as she was unaware of where she was and in unfamiliar surroundings. I got a good report today so I’m hoping that will continue 🙌
My MIL went from Independent side to assisted side of the wing within a a year of moving into the senior living facility. We moved her to MC 2 weeks ago. I think I took her to various doctor's offices about 8 times over 2 months prior to moving MC. Also we were receiving calls of her fall almost every week and she refused to use a walker. She is doing much better at the MC because MC is catered toward the folks with dementia.
I’ll be so interested to hear how you all adjust . Please let us know.
Adjustment to transitions can take months, listen to the experts and doctors and give it time.  There are some good posts and resources on websites to help you handle what is to come.  You are not alone!  It does get better for all.
It's an enormous relief. I moved my dad yesterday and I feel like I'm alive again. I can get up whenever I want, I can go out whenever I want, I can focus on work again, I can stop jumping at every noise, I can open the doors without worrying he's going to bolt out into the street, I no longer have to constantly monitor his moods and keep him busy and soothe him when he's agitated, I can stop living in fear of the moments when his agitation erupts into full-blown aggression...the list goes on.

And the funny thing is, while it's early yet, he's adjusting fine and seems to be in great spirits, so it may turn out that he's better off there, with a team of professionals, than he is at home with just a couple of burned-out amateurs.
Thank you all for sharing your experiences and support. This board has been really helpful for feeling like I’m not alone particularly as an only child dealing with a parent I don’t have many places to turn.
Moved her in today. She was very angry when I told her she wasn’t leaving with me (despite her being excited yesterday when we spoke about it). I walked out and just left because I felt like my presence was only going to keep her in that loop and being quick about it was easier. Still feels shitty but I hope that I can sleep better tonight knowing she’s in a place where she’s safe and secure.
You made the best choice, both in placing her and in not lingering once you'd dropped her off. That's the advice my dad's facility gave us - they'll act out more with family there than if they're alone with the staff, so the best thing for the family to do is to quietly vanish.

I think you'll both feel better now. She'll get the care she needs, and you can go back to a semi-normal life without spending every day under dementia's shadow.
