You 100% belong on that sub. 🙂

As for Dementia: not necessarily. My grandma spent 3-4 days during Christmas a couple of years back. She was like 92 or something. And while she was there, she was super confused! Very agitated too! They almost had to restrain her. She had fits of delirium and all! 

The minute she put a foot outside that hospital, she was super mellow. She never was diagnosed with any kind lf dementia! 😀

It seems to me that my grandma did a couple of back to back panic attacks. It might very well be your case too! I mean your mother. 

Also: i live in Canada so it’s a money thing.. like she could have received the tests for diagnosing any illness.


My point is : just being in a hospital can freak some people out.
Also take a look into ICU delirium. Same type of symptoms. 
An event that suddenly causes it vs a disease that’s causing it.
Sundowning CAN happen in the absence of dementia, so you are not necessarily staring down that road at this point, but it might ease your mind to have a conversation with her doctor. The MMSE and/or MoCA can give you a good idea as to where she is at cognitively, but I think she'd need to be stabilized and back to her baseline before either of these tests were administered. Best of luck to you with your mom...
It's possible, see if they can get a neurologist to see her while she's in the hospital or schedule an appointment with one for after.  They do a bunch of physical tests and then this MMSE cognition test to assess where they are at.
I believe so yes
It sounds like your mom is suffering from [Hospital Induced Delerium](https://www.health.harvard.edu/staying-healthy/when-patients-suddenly-become-confused).  Is she being seen by a psychiatrist?
Just wanted to pop in as I was looking for help dealing with my girlfriend, sundowning can definitely happen without Alzheimer's/dementia. Lack of sleep and infections can cause sundowning also. They specifically say UTIs but my girlfriend has had a lingering infection for a while that turned very serious recently where she had to get her leg drained and it's become completely unbearable to deal with. I totally feel for people living with Alzheimer's/dementia patients because it's so difficult to watch someone go through, but so difficult to deal with living with as well. I'm exhausted :/
Thank you for this. I’m hoping that she’ll improve if she can be discharged. Today is her 10th day there and I worry that she won’t be able to recover completely from this ordeal.
Thanks for this advice. I’m going to talk to the doctor and case worker tomorrow to see about getting a neurologist in to do these tests.
The doctor is “consulting” with a psychiatrist regarding her meds, but I don’t know if a psychiatrist has evaluated her. Adding to the complexity of this is that I live in a different time zone, so I’m struggling to connect with her doctors and nurses. I’m going to call tomorrow to see if she can be seen by a neurologist or psychiatrist.
