My grandma's PCP has been the one requesting follow-ups and he's been really on top of it. Eventually, he prescribed in-homes visits from a nurse, PT, and OT. Nurse recently did another memory test which was incredibly helpful to see how far my grandma has progressed in her disease.

My grandma's current neurologist has been downright neglectful. Said my grandma's memory was "perfect, better than an 80 year old's (she's 94)" after a 2 minute phone conversation. She has an appointment with a new one next week that was recommended by her PCP. It's kind of hit and miss with some of these specialists.
i hope the neuro was knowledgable about meds that folks with LBD should avoid.

personally, i think follow-up with LBD diagnosis is crucial !  ((but then i am pretty demanding on what a neurologist should be)).

stay in close contact with the folks at [https://www.lbda.org/](https://www.lbda.org/) .  Some are familiar with my name, if you mention that i sent you.  -- Truthful Loving Kindness
With my sister's FTD, we have one or two follow-up appointments, but those were mainly for us family members.  After that, I did a couple of phone consults but haven't had any contact with the neurologist in over a year.  I think that's normal because there is really nothing for them to do or assess at that point.

I have had the PCP coordinate with the neurologist on some medications to ensure they are appropriate, but otherwise the PCP takes care of everything.
We meet my wife's neuropsychiatrist every six months even though we've understood for nearly six years there is no treatment. He checks and gives us feedback on her progression, considers med changes, answers questions we have, and discusses research going on and possible additional support resources to consider. We've been meeting by zoom this past year, which was nice given it's a 2-hour drive for us as well. Though I just got a note saying we can't do that any longer because we're over the border in another state. Love regulations getting in the way of ease of healthcare access. /s

We occasionally visit my wife's PCP but that is for general physical health only. The PCP does not engage in managing my wife's dementia whatsoever or seem particularly interested in understanding what's going on. Zero back and forth with her neuropsychiatrist. 

This is an incredibly difficult journey for the person with the illness and for their family. My view is that your neurologist should 100% be helping support and guide you all through a difficult experience, even if an appointment consists only of Q&A. If the neurologist has deep experience with the particular illness, he/she should be able to preview (to a degree) what you might expect (obviously varies by person), how to emotionally and practically prepare for it, and generally just offer support. This is all my opinion, of course, and perhaps we've been fortunate with our neurodoc.

Good luck. Feel free to DM if I can offer any more about the experience we've had.
Can you just make an appointment rather than asking if they think one is necessary?  Even if there's nothing they can do, if your mom finds it reassuring you can do it anyway.  I also urge you to see if there are any clinical trials you can participate in near you.
My follow up was 6 mos for the first 2 than 1x a year.  There isn’t really anything for them to “examine” make absolutely sure you have the Drs. E-Mail address and make sure he/she checks them and responds.  In 6 mos there are going to be so many questions you will have where you can’t wait 3-4 months for a response.  Also remember right now the Drs aren’t seeing GMA for her benefit they’re gathering information to help someone else’s GMA in 10+ years other than the first year when he may want her taking meds and seeing how dosing is
Follow up care is critically important as her condition changes. If her doctor is resistant to continuing care, maybe find another doctor (if you can). When things like standing/walking/swallowing become more difficult, you’ll have to make accommodations (mobility devices, safety features, maybe even liquid thickeners or diet changes). You shouldn’t have to just wing it.
After my MIL was diagnosed with Parkinson's and Lewy Body Dementia by a neurologist in a Big hospital, we didn't need to follow up with him any more. We followed up with a Local primary care doctor to adjust this or that med. 

I don't know how old your mom is...but my MIL is 79 years old, as she started losing weight, we got her poked/prodded to see if she has a cancer but no cancer.

We turned her care into a Comfort Care after realizing that we won't treat her with operation/chemo in her current condition (92 lb at 5.4 ft) even if she had a cancer as no doctor wants to operate on her any way. That decision took a huge burden off of our chest.
After my dad's FTD diagnosis, I've only ever followed up with his PCP, who's been wonderful about managing his symptoms and meds. There really isn't anything to discuss with his neurologist at this point. My dad's pretty far into the disease. At some point soon I'll take his doctor's offer to sign him up for hospice, at which point she won't really be involved any more.

I've found that with pretty much any major diagnosis, it's really up to the patient or caregiver to research and learn about it. I was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis and then lupus, and then finally with the correct diagnosis of celiac disease. In each case, I was given little explanation or even told to follow up with the neurologist or rheumatologist. I do follow up with the gastroenterologist for colonoscopies though. But I pretty much had to do my own research.
Definitely contact the Lewy Body Association.  There are meds that are commonly prescribed that people with LBD do way worse on (like some anti-psychotics).  They will have the list and also tell you what to expect and what type of doctor to follow up with
We're a two-hour drive from the neurologist's office so it seemed to make sense to call first than to get all the way there and have him look at us in that doctorly slow-burn-over-the-glasses expression and say "yep, you still have dementia".
Love the slow-burn-over the glasses expression! They are seem to have it.
Well, of course, she still has dementia.  But a good doctor would talk with her about any new symptoms and if there were ways to manage them or even just reassure her that what she is experiencing is normal and expected.
