My mother is in a nursing home with dementia. I took a few pictures of painting she did back in the 80's. Had them made into posters on Amazon. The staff will put them up with poster stickers. You can make prints of her favorite pets and family. Also I bought my mother a stuffed cat that looked like a tabby cat she had. She loves it. Good luck.
In terms of a room having a lack of color, flowers are a pretty reliable gift to send. I know it sounds cliche, but sending a mixed bouquet shouldn't hurt.
A nice pretty picture to hang on the wall. Preferably one from her house.
The Joy for All companion pets are nice, though they are expensive.
I work in a dementia care home, there’s been multiple studies showing that bright colours can become overwhelming to dementia patients due to changes in the way visual stimuli are processed in the brain so don’t be upset by a lack of colour.

In my experience, the absolute best gifts that will get the most appreciation from your grandmother long term are anything sentimental. As many photos as possible, there will be times many of my residents might forget the names of the people or the pictures or quite how they know the person but will still look upon the photos fondly. And I’ve lost count the amount of times a resident who’s in very late stages of dementia have floored me with detailed accounts of memories based on photos they’ve noticed.

Other things include anything sweet, I’ve noticed that for a lot of people going through dementia sweet foods become the only kind of food they’re interested in.

Also side note, regardless of how far her dementia progresses never stop visiting if you can (logistically or emotionally). I have a resident who’s barely vocal these days suddenly start telling me about how her mum taught her to paint and how much she misses her son (who hasn’t visited in quite a few years). Breaks your heart every time. They might not know WHO you are. But the connection it still felt very often.

Hope some of this helps!
The memory care my mother is in only allows edible flowers.  We can't send anything that someone will try to eat...soap, perfume.  No glass.
