I think you should stick to cold sandwiches. It sounds like it's just a couple of times a week so it shouldn't be a problem.  If she has problems with chewing, a fruit yogurt might be nice.  I think you might have to think outside the box on this one. Nothing wrong with a treat for lunch once in a while if it gets some calories in her. I thought of an electric kettle but what if she spills on herself? I think the same could be said of any other heating method. A toaster is the only semi safe appliance I think she could handle at this point.
It sounds like she could use a part time aide, tbh
Have you thought about a getting a slow cooker? You can do the meal prep then leave it to cook away for hours on end, and there's minimal risk of anything getting burned. The smell of something cooking (rather than sitting cold in the fridge) might be a sensory nudge to remind her to eat too.

And don't forget snacks that she doesn't have to heat up. Calories and protein, little and often, may be easier to handle than big meals anyway.
If she cant remember to feed herself, she should be living full time with someone. My mom lost tons of weight but is still strong because we monitor her food intake. Years ago she would think she had eaten when she hadn't
Can you make a sandwich and leave it in the fridge then call her at lunch time to remind her to get it? 

Maybe anything that needs heating up isn’t practical. So meals that can be done and left in the fridge

**Things that don’t need heating up**

Sandwiches

Tuna Niçoise salad 

Pasta salads 

Muffins (healthy ones that are filling)

Fruit salad

Savoury muffins

Potato salad

Is there a meal service that can visit her during the day with a hot meal?

A neighbor who could make her a cup of tea or heat up some soup for her?
husband had to quit his job now, but occassionally he is gone all day.

Some suggestions are here >> [https://truthfulkindness.com/2019/09/30/alone4week/](https://truthfulkindness.com/2019/09/30/alone4week/) , and whoever is "on duty" at the time will often ask "what did you eat for dinner" (breakfast, etc) shortly after that would be on my schedule .  Then i can look at my plate on the table and reply , even if i may not remember WHAT i ate.
My dad still knows how to microwave but I was planning to get something like the below smart microwave if he couldn't operate it anymore.  You or a hired caregiver can use the alexa app to speak into your phone and operate the microwave remotely.  All she has to do is put the dish into the microwave.  Or you can set it as part of a routine so no one has to turn it on but I wonder if your relative is too far along for that.

Right now for my dad, I'm switching to a yolink motion sensor placed inside my refrig.  If my dad doesn't open the refrig by a certain time by a certain time, alexa will tell him he hasn't eaten lunch yet and to go eat lunch.  When he does open the refrigerator, alexa will tell him to grab the blue container and eat that for lunch.  There is a door sensor on the microwave door that when he opens the microwave, it tells him to cook his food for 1.5 minutes.  In your case, you could set the routine so that when the door is closed, the microwave will start automatically and cook for 1.5 minutes.  You might not even need the door sensor, I'm not sure with this smart microwave.

My dad never misses meals anymore with alexas help even when he's completely by himself. he problem is, he often times only eats half his meals.  I have alexa keep reminding him to eat all of it but he is never hungry anymore so I gave up on too many reminds cause after the first one, he just tells alexa no.  Instead, I've hired a friend to call three times a day to give him 220 calorie protein bars or nuts instead as snacks.  This supplements his meals he doesn't eat completely.  I'd have my friend nag him during meals but its much easier to get him to eat snacks than his whole meals so this alexa meals, friend snacks is more time efficient.  It's really cheap to do things this way too cause it takes about 15 minutes for him to eat a snack, done 3 times a day.

I like the slow cooker idea but then I would have a much harder time controlling how much he eats.  My dad doesn't like cold foods which makes it tougher, maybe you don't have that problem.

https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07894S727/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_apa_glt_fabc_K1DA19TPW47M889NEX3D
We do want to make some sambos and rolls bit didn’t want things to be too boring for her ❤️Maybe we could get some bagel things for the toaster! 
Yogurts would definitely be safe too! Loads of flavours! 
Thank you!!!
I’ll ask my family about the slow cooker! 
I like the idea of little healthy snacks! 
She’s like a little kiddo sometimes because she loves salt and sugar, but maybe she’ll see a packet and assume it’s a sweet thing!
If I leave them out and about 🤔😂
She might like healthy muffins and things! She’s got to be tricked sometimes to eat healthy things (she’s very much a salt, sugar and bread person)
But maybe if those salads were pre-made she would be happy with them as opposed to going to the effort to making things herself 🤔
Thanks so much for the ideas!
This is mad?? I didn’t realise there was stuff out there like that?
We’re trying hard to get even a part time care giver with no luck, so the aim is to make sure my nana is okay until we do successfully get someone. 
This is definitely the best thing I’ve seen so far, she’d really love something hotter than a sambo if we can do it safely! This is great!
Muffins can be yummy sweet and healthy without you needing to tell her they’re healthy!
Also savoury muffins can be the same yummy and reasonably healthy 

Instagram has loads of foodies / at home cooks and chefs that you can get ideas and recipes from. 

Even think of say 2-3 of her favourite foods and incorporate those ingredients in the meals. Say bananas are her fav fruit then makes banana muffins etc.
Good I hope it works out.  I haven't tried the microwave myself.  Good luck.

Edit:  tip, you can set Alexa as your default voice assistant on Android phones.  This way, you can set the square button at your command tab to bring up Alexa without having to open the Alexa app.  Can do hands free talking too if you want though Alexa would always be listening so I don't do that.
