[deleted]
Stay a friend. Go visit. As things get bad, friends tend to disappear.
Take her out for a dinner and drink and talk about Totally Something Different than Dementia unless she brings it up. Help her forget the dementia world especially since her mom is in MC. 

My friend took me out to a dinner and we talked about tennis and GUYS (the hunks among us), and she made me laugh so hard that 3 hours went by in a blink of an eye.

She helped me forget the depressing dementia for at least 4-5 hours with her stories from her hilarious world.
[deleted]
I’m in my mid-twenties and I find people either basically refuse to bring it up or they ask constantly how my mom is. I don’t like either. 

I think I would prefer that they occasionally check in on how I’m doing (vs my mom, bc I never know what to say? Oh yeah she’s doing steadily worse everyday thanks for asking). 

I find things where moms are involved are especially hard. For example we were throwing a friend a bridal shower and everyone was talking what their moms were doing to help and I felt really uncomfortable because I had nothing to offer and mine would not be there. Maybe in a situation like this or a Mother’s Day, etc you could offer that she hangs with your mom as a second mom to her

Best of luck, you’re a good friend!
You are a good friend!   But Yes, sometimes folk also need time off, from dealing with it being confronted with it being traumatised by it being consumed by it.   The last thing you want or need is for a well-meaning friend to batter you with it again, "but *tell me* all about yr poor mom *how dreadful*".

Some years back I was having a really tough time it was non-stop 24/7 I was barely hanging on, went out with some friends for some desperately needed time-off with that not consuming my brain - a very good mate took me aside looked deep into my eyes and with sincere concern said " are you dealing ok with it, tell me all about it" - I nearly had a mental & emotional meltdown *on the spot*.  **FFS I NEED SOME TIME OFF from this nightmare!!!**   I need to have some "normal" time in the world of the free & not traumatised ffs. 

  It's not for you to judge if she's being "avoidant", you're not her shrink.

Have a look at the dementia .org & alzheimers .org for your country, they have tons of resources for people with memory loss & their relatives & friends.  Lot of tips on how to support someone on the journey.   Maybe print out some helpful tips or info or whatnot.   Flow with the go of your friend.  Let her know you are there if she needs to talk about it, otherwise, follow her lead.

best of luck to you all!
Be her support friend!  This is the nastiest disease ever!  My father has lived with our family for 8 months and it is nothing like we ever imagined it would be.  Starters he was a narcissist and add this to the mix...our kids hate him and he thinks they are the issue.  We will be looking at memory care in the next 4 months. When you start messing with the brain, all is thrown at the wind.  Just when someone thinks they have a handle on the issues, something else rears its ugly head.  I have a bad history with my father, but my wife now understands what I've been telling her for years.  I wanted to give him some dignity before we could no longer give him the care necessary. Man child is my best description. He can't even make a coffee using a Keurig.  We make his coffee, all three meals, assist in showering.  He still gets dressed and makes his bed, but that's about it.  Best of luck.
Your friend is having a difficult time. This disease takes time to process and when she’s ready- she’ll talk to you. Some people deal with stress or trauma differently. I know that I don’t or can’t talk about things as they’re happening. I’m trying to get through it or just survive then I’ll process my feelings later.
Well, if they are still in the process of cleaning out the house I would think it certainly would be good if you could help with that. I had to clean out my mothers house and was grateful for the family members who helped. Also if you can help arrange any administrative tasks in that process, like finding appropriate donation facilities or auction houses, storage facilities (and the rental trucks needed) and finally junk removal companies. Finding contractors to do repairs as needed etc. etc. etc.

I was overwhelmed with doing that and at the same time worrying that I was making poor decisions or uninformed decisions because I was both overwhelmed with the task and the grief of having to go through all those things that dated back to my childhood. If she’s going to sell the house then helping her find a good realtor and all the work/research involved in that would also be useful. 

People often ask “how can I help” but that puts a huge burden on the person that you’re trying to help because now they have to not only figure out what they need to do but tell you what to do and then hope that you will be willing to do it and in the way that they asked (mental load). 

Any of this mental load that you can remove from her at this point would certainly be useful. And I don’t mean just preparing a bunch of documents and saying here look at this and tell me what you think. I couldn’t look through paperwork I could only do do do. It was very hard and many things didn’t work out which I blame myself for. I think if I had help with those decisions and they didn’t work out I would’ve felt less bad about them.

Being a good sounding board for decisions she will have to make would be useful, and try to approach those discussions in a matter of fact,  non-emotional way.  At the same time if and when she does open up to you just listen and don’t give advice on how to deal with it. It’s very annoying when you’re essentially grieving and someone else is giving you tips on how to deal with it. I don’t know how to explain it  but I basically shut down if all of a sudden I am getting a lecture on how to not be sad or overwhelmed.

Edit:
Also just add on, if she has kids that are in school you can probably help her deal with them especially if they are doing remote learning. Offering to take them to their extracurriculars or shopping or out for ice cream or dinner or whatever so that she doesn’t have to worry about neglecting them while doing everything else. That would certainly ease a burden.
I really relate to this. Surprised to see this comment because I usually find that people in this situation are older, but I'm 31 and having the same battle with my mom who was diagnosed 4 years ago. Some days I just really don't want to talk about it, I want to pretend it's not happening and have 1 normal conversation (though it's still nice to be asked how we're doing), but then there are times when it all builds up and I'm at breaking point and I really need to cry and vent to a close friend about everything..so yeah your advice is great about telling her she's there for the 'good, bad and ugly'.. it's important to be know there's someone you can turn to.

If you ever want to talk to someone in a similar @thunderbeast77 then feel free to send me a message. Misery loves company I guess!..
Thank you so much. Me and my best friend are in our 30’s as well. This is the first time either of us has had to deal with aging parents. It’s been so sad. Thank you for being kind to me today.
Thank you for your kindness
Like what another commenter said, she may be that she’s already mourned the loss or she is just ignoring it for now as a coping mechanism. 
I am sure one day she will be ready to break down and I am sure you will be there for her. 

For me it was more of a low burn, so I have long since mourned the loss of the person I knew
This is what I was going to say.  My dad just passed two weeks ago.  We did everything we could for my mom attempting to keep her taking care of herself.  Take her an occasional meal.  Many people under stress eat out too much and don’t get proper nutrition.  
Watch her for signs of stress, and volunteer to help when and where you can. Some people don’t take well to being asked if they are ok, especially in situations like this.  I wish you the best.
