Hey /u/scrumpusrumpus, I don't think that this is coming across as a helpful reframing. 

Growing up with a parent with dementia really is quite bad a lot of the time. And its okay to be angry and frustrated and feel all the feels about it. Some days I feel lucky and simultaneously guilty that I got the extra time with my mom, even when she was at a point she wouldn't have wanted to still be hanging on. Other days I'm mad that the whole thing ever even happened. 

I don't think that anyone in your shoes would feel happy or grateful given your situation. You've been dealt a difficult hand in life. I hope you have the patience to make it to a better place mentally. If you ever want to chat or vent or just feel heard, feel free to DM me.
You’re either demented or a total moron, oh and selfish as shit!!!  While you’re dancing how has your mom felt the last many years??  How happy she must be covered in bedsores??  Did you know that many (very many) dementia patients are aware of their surroundings?  Their memories and ability to speak, eat, walk may be gone but that’s because their brain doesn’t send the signals where they need to be in order to walk etc. that does not mean they aren’t aware and just can’t verbally or otherwise express how they’re feeling.  So next time you share your joy do something I doubt you’ve done in a long time, think of someone beside yourself
How old are you??
[deleted]
I don’t understand. I really don’t. If you think dementia isn’t all that bad and that you’re lucky your mom has dementia, why would you commit suicide once she is gone?
Wtf am I reading. You are trolling on here man
[deleted]
I just want to know why you would say you are going to commit suicide when she dies. Do you mean that or are you just being dramatic for attention. Or maybe you aren’t even sure why you are saying that.
[deleted]
What help are you getting? I hope you are in therapy at the very least. If it’s not working, please try a different therapist and also talk to your doctor about this. Saying you are lucky your mom has dementia isn’t really a positive outlook. It’s a lie, and lies don’t make us feel better or more able to handle the difficulties we are facing. 1-800-273-8255 is a suicide hotline. 1-800-272-3900 is the Alzheimer’s helpline. Please use both of these. You deserve a better life and future than what you see before you.
