Oof. Is it possible to filter her calls to a voicemail specially for her that says something like “Hi gramma, I love you, I can’t talk right now but I’ll call you as soon as I can!” 

When people with dementia get an idea in their head (to call you) or a fixed routine (calling you) it’s hard to break them of that. Is there a family member closer to her who could help at all? Spend some time with her?
My mom does this.

Honestly, I just treat it like any other call - if I am too busy, have to take it later. 

My mom cannot seem to remember when a good time to talk would be - (9a, 12noon, 6+) so she calls.  I do try to call her back nightly, but if I can't I can't.

It gets frustrating.  It really does.  But, you have to tell yourself, "She is not doing this maliciously", and "I can't always be on the phone."
Could you get a second sim for your phone or a cheap burner?  Update her phonebook or speed-dials to the new number.  Then you can leave a nice voicemail greeting and let her chat to that for most of the time and only answer once per day the rest of the time.
I’m sorry to say but this won’t work. The underlying assumption here is that she still has full memory and cognition. Once dementia sets in all you can do is roll with it and not expect them to remember or change their behavior like a rational person. The call blocking others have suggested is probably better, assuming that she is in an environment where someone can contact you on her behalf in the event of a legitimate emergency. 

It sucks and as others have said appreciate the time she still remembers you and that you don’t need to take the phone away or move her to a more supervised living environment
[deleted]
Block her during the day and then give her a call a few times a week when you can. She will forget you didn't answer. She probably shouldn't live alone anymore. Good luck.
I ended up using YouMail.com a few years ago so that I could serve up custom greetings to my loved one. It saved me a lot of time without making me feel I was ignoring him, and he would leave voicemails that were more calm and reassured.

In your case however I would be wary forwarding my main line to a service like that.

Maybe you could get a burner phone or Google Voice number just for her to call?
My FIL does this to BIL all the time. We haven't figured out a solution, but I like the blocking/muting idea until he's ready to talk to him. We don't want to take away his phone because it is one of the only ways he hasn't lost his autonomy. Good luck.
I know it's way easier said than done, but honestly...don't pick up. 
She won't remember you didn't pick up, you picking up won't change anything, and if she was in her right mind she wouldn't want you to have to worry about stuff like this. Just make sure she's in a safe place and that someone can contact you if an emergency happens.
Who’s watching her o.0
Rejoice that she still knows who you are. It won't be long and she won't remember your name, let alone your phone number. I wish your grandma the best in life!
I went through this with my mother a few years ago. Sometimes she still does it because she keeps seeing my name on the caller ID and thinks i called her instead of the other way around. You're better off blocking her during business hours. That's another issue, my mother doesn't know what business hours are anymore. She will call at whatever time because she has no no concept of business days or schedules anymore.
Gently tell her you're 22 and own 3 businesses, you live across the country in LA. Your business partner and you have 15 employees so in other words, you're very busy. 

Tell her you enjoy speaking with her but will not be able to answer each time she calls. You'll respond when you're able.

Grandma is 82...she may reach 100 or she may not see 2022. Enjoy her while you can...find a balance for family, work, and leisure.
Hey I know you're really busy and literally almost can't take the calls if not really can't, please take my advice pick up. It will be the thing you regret the most when she won't be able to communicate anymore. Please enjoy the time you have now. You could have years, you could have a year with her. Do the best you can. But the chats with your grandmother you may never be able to get back. And one day you will think back to how grateful you are she would never stop bothering you.
google voice can do number specific outgoing messages.
What a great idea!!
Smart!
Thats a large leap you've just made from such little information.
Definitely this.  I had the same endless phone calls with my sister and soon after, she started wandering.
This! It’s what my mum had to do to my dad. He called her over 100 times in one day once. She blocked his number and then had a set time in the day she would call and she stuck to that, never answered any other calls.
She said she told her. She will forget. 

My mom did this with my sister before we placed her. It got to the point where her doctors told her not to answer because she called all day and night (even when she was in another room at home with her).  The day she finally blocked her it freaked my mom out so much that she called 911.  Break it sooner rather than later. Tell whatever relative is closer what's happening and that you will only be answering once per day (or whatever amount you want).
