Going thru this right now with my dad, who I dropped off about 10 days ago. He was pretty pissed for the first few days. He even punched and broke a TV! The staff told me that while his reaction was scary, this is relatively normal, that it should take a few weeks for them to acclimate. 

Here's the thing to remember: the anger is not anger at you or anyone for leaving her there. **The anger is a result of the dementia, it is part of the pathology of the disease** that when there is confusion, a new environment, a new thing that they cannot process, it comes out as anger. I felt immense guilt about taking him there, wondering if I'd put him in there too soon, that he is in there helpless and angry at his daughter who betrayed him. But that's not what's really happening, we have to look at his behavior as a result of a brain disease. It's not HIM.

It is something I have to remind myself over and over but it's true. He has a medical condition that needs medical professionals. Their job is help him through this disease, and we need to be patient to allow that to happen and let him acclimate. Sadly, the progression of the disease will ultimately make it so they forget they want to go at all.

Give it a month or two. It takes time.
This is the worst. In my situation, my mother is in a home not because she couldn't look after herself anymore but because she doesn't understand she has dementia. Therefore, she is not yet in a stage where she will just forget that she is there or accept any of these changes. It's horrible. I feel so sorry for her, having to be there, but there is nothing I can do. Sorry to go off on a tangent - I'm sure your situation will improve, just be patient.
I only moved my dad to an apartment by mine.  He was yelling angry for a month.  After a month there was no more yelling.  Now he is more resigned to staying where he is.  But he still suggests every day to move him back cause it "saves money and is more convenient".  And many days I get about 15 to 20 texts a day saying the same thing often times in the middle of the night.  His new place is a million times nicer than his old too.

Sorry, I guess you're looking for hope but it is hope.  Extreme anger typically dies down after not too long.
My mum threatened to run away, claimed she'd made it down the road and talked about jumping out the window. Of a ground floor room.

She managed to get the staff to phone me once and all she did was scream down the phone. Later, my brother saw her, she had no recollection of it.

We told the staff not to let her phone us, that took a while to take effect.

Mum died there, a few years after dad died. She starved herself to death.

8'(
My 94 yo father passed away last week leaving my 92 yo mother with Alzheimer’s alone at home. It takes both my brother and I to take care of her 24/7. We have found a memory care facility that has one opening. It comes highly recommended by close friends. We were very fortunate to find a durable POA for my mom from 11 years ago putting my brother in charge. My mom will be furious and will hate us for doing this but there is nothing else we can do. Her house is an accident waiting to happen. I don’t look forward to the next few weeks. I am so tired and have had no time to grieve for my father. Good luck OP, sooner or later many of us are faced with this decision. It sucks.
When I got my grandma a new caregiver, she was so mad. Accused this poor person of stealing (food, money), accused them of being lazy, spying on her, etc.. It's been 2 months and grandma loves her now. Just told me the other day "Maria is so good to me."

It might take some time but they will acclimate. If they complain about anything "They're taking my things!" or "I don't like the food!" reassure them that you will talk to the staff. In the case of the food, you could maybe drop by once in a while and bring your mom's favorite lunch (if the facility allows it).
I moved my mom into memory care in March.  The anger was horrific at first.   Adjustments were made to medication, things improved and yet, she's still sundowning and angry late at night.  She's going to be 85 and has had memory issues for four years but the anger really began with memory care but there was no way she could live on her own.

Two nights ago I was awakened by a 10 pm call from the memory care facility.   It was my mother.  "I've been detained.  The police are here and they won't let me back into my room."

Oh dear God- had she started a fire?  Hit another resident?  What happened???

Turns out, no police.   A few minutes into the call she said, becoming very angry, that she WANTED to call the police to get her the F out of here RIGHT NOW.   Bonus fun- she pushed a button on the facility phone that caused my number to be blocked so we had to deal with that issue.

My mom has forgotten completely where she's lived the past four years, which is kind of a relief because she had a tidy little assisted living apartment she loved.    Like you, I am wondering if the anger will fade as her memories do, and when.
My grandpa had anger issues before he passed away in December of 2020. He would get angry for some things, such as being not to do something due to his old age (ex. not to do laundry in the basement as he took a tumble down the stairs and ended up in the hospital). His dementia also made him lose his sense of judging between right and wrong, which made him an easy target for scammers and he lost money because of it. He would get angry because he couldn't perform his taxes as my dad and uncle were his power of attorney and that they were responsible for his finances. He would get agitated at both my dad and uncle for doing his finances, saying he was capable of doing it, even though it was clear he couldn't do it on his own. 

We tried to get him to move into an assisted living as he would be monitored closely, but he didn't want to go anywhere. When he passed away, we felt this sense of relief, mostly because he was no longer suffering from the dementia and that we didn't have to endure his anger episodes caused by the dementia.
The carw facility I work for recommends at least two weeks before you try and interact with them. Give them time to bud the habit and memory of being there. That doesn't me you can't call the facility and ask about them and get an update.
AT LEAST 2.5-3 weeks, but it can take longer. I work in a memory care unit (I do activities, we have a blast) and that is about how long it takes most residents to adjust.

It is HARD to change environments, especially if the person has lived in the same place for years (or decades!) recently. The good news is that if it is a skilled care unit (has RNs, docs, medication techs and/or CNAs- my home has all) then the care staff should be able to help acclimate them relatively quickly. 

There are outliers- one resident refuses to speak to one of their children for “putting them here” after more than 6 months, but they regularly talk to their other children. That child gets updates from staff or siblings. 

Some who are more anxiety prone might not ever stop asking to leave or go home, and the staff also just handles that with redirecting or affirming they’ll make it home (we all do, in the end.. morbid humor). 

We have more than 25 residents, and they are all at varying stages. Some are very “with it”- remember seeing me/other staff before, recognizing that their memory isn’t reliable, able to use the restroom on their own, but unable to remember to feed themselves or where they are for more than 5-10 minutes. Some who don’t communicate or speak in “word salad”, but mobile in some capacity (walk or wheelchair they scoot around using their feet). If your mom is in the early stages and co-habitating with others who are further along, the wanderers may be very distressing to her at first (or always..) because they have no concept of boundaries in any sense- they walk into other people’s rooms, move things that don’t belong to them, touch people without warning or suddenly. I had two residents try to button/unbutton my shirt today, and it’s jarring even when I know it’s harmless. 

If you have the option to fill out a “life story” questionnaire, definitely give as much info as you can (even if it seems over the top)! If the home already has one- excellent that means SOMEONE is reading them and planning to help her adjust. If they don’t, you can google one to fill out or just type up basic info about her (name, hobbies, where she grew up, info about spouse/children/close friends, FOOD LIKES AND DISLIKES/ALLERGIES) to give to the staff- there surely will be a nosy person who likes to know everything who will find something interesting enough to make small talk with your mom. I love knowing my resident’s histories and interests so I can comment on things I know about (gardening, pets, farms, children and food are my go to convo topics) or google things I don’t know (sheet metal workers, states other than my own, birds, military stuff, etc).
First off, well done on taking that first step.  I checked my mom into memory care 4 years ago, and to this day she still wants to leave.  She still doesn’t think she needs it.  I think she’s less angry, but she still gets upset.
Thank you all for sharing. There are so many good reminders and tips here. I dont have any siblings who are in this with me so hearing your struggles and stories are what make me feel less alone.
My grandma had to move to a personal care home at the start of this year. Most days she is still angry and doesn’t understand why she’s there. She does have some good days when I call and she tells me how nice the staff is and how great the food is.  I have been able to pick her this past month and was very happy. She has even bonded with a staff member and is always laughing and joking with her. The truth is this is really fucking hard in the best of times. Dealing with this during covid times is a nightmare. Always remember that you are doing the best thing for your mother and I’m sure you are a great daughter. Don’t let the monster that is dementia make you think otherwise.
My dad got mad that people live in Australia, because he read that a shark bit someone in the ocean there. (We live in Arizona.)  

He got mad that smartphones exist, because he can't understand them, therefore no one should have to figure them out.  

He got mad that he has to plug his flip phone in, and wants to know why the battery dies and what can be done about it.

He didn't get mad when I told him he has brain damage, though.
Saving this for when we move my Oma (grandma), which we are in the early stages of. I keep trying to help my mom with her feelings of guilt. I think what you said might help her quite a bit (“a medical condition that needs medical professionals”).
If it comforts you at all, know that a feature of dementia is the inability to understand that they have the illness-their brains simply keep them from understanding that they are sick. So you can tell her, but she won’t get it. I tell my mother that “her brain doesn’t make memories anymore,” and that pacifies her in the moment, but it has been a decade and she still doesn’t grasp it.
I am so sorry about your mum.  My mother is also refusing to eat much of anything now, too.
>I am so tired and have had no time to grieve for my father.

Same here, all I could think of was, "what happens with mum now?"

They're both dead now, and I think the feelings from all that happened is starting to surface some years later.
And I needed to reassure myself that putting my dad into full-time care was also not MY failure, that I'm somehow a bad person who couldn't handle or otherwise did not want to take care of my loved one. That it was a selfish choice. The guilt is very much bound up in that. I'm sure your mom is struggling with that too. There's this idea that it's somehow heroic to give up one's life to take care of someone else. Sacrificing oneself like that is not heroic, it's slow suicide. At least it was to me.

It's a gift to your loved one to give them proper care. I am not qualified to take care of a cancer patient in their final stages any more than I am qualified to take care of dementia in its final stages.
I didn’t think of it that way a medical condition that needs medical professionals this is a great perspective I’m going to use this when I work with patients thank you
This is definitely what she struggles with. I try my best to help her, as she often feels alone in this. I am going to show her your comment and your reply. I think it will reassure her that there are others that struggled/are struggling with those feelings. Thank you!
Good luck, to you, your mom and your oma.
