My grandmother was/is the same. Paranoid, weird and clearly fictitious stories. Hostility towards anyone correcting her, trying to assure her nothing's wrong, etc. And a complete denial of having any real issues coupled with a general distaste for doctors. Thankfully, she loves her primary doctor for whatever reason. Unfortunately, he himself is pretty old and saw 'no problem' with her. My mom got advice from someone to write up a letter explaining the issues, concerns, symptoms, and give it to the doctor. In the letter, ask (er, sort of demand) that they refer her to a specialist for an evaluation, and if needed (def needed in our case) please make it seem like a great idea the doctor had, NOT the family. Then, schedule a 'routine' visit. Worked great for my grandma. Since he suggested it, she was sort of begrudgingly willing, and we got her evaluation (advanced dementia, 5 almost 6 on the GDS).  
Now, this rouse only works if your grandmother is willing to see a doctor. That, or you sort of lie. Therapeutic lying. If she's talking about needing to go to an old lady's facility or something (which - doesn't exist - right?), tell her that's where she is going but instead take her to get the evaluation. Or if she forgets that she recently had an exam or labs (my grandma forgets about half of her appointments she's had within like a month), say you'll schedule one.
Fortunately my husband wanted to know what was going on with his brain.  He played professional football for 13 years so he was worried about CTE  fortunately he doesn’t have the classic symptoms but does have dementia and hardly speaks.  I’m not sure how you can get her to go get tested.  Sorry 
Maybe make something up.  Like she’s been chosen for something.
My dad goes to the doctor pretty much every 6 months.  I thought it was routine for seniors to go that oftrn?  If not, maybe persuade her to  get the annual checkups everyone does.  Doesn't have to be about her brain health.  Could alert her Dr in advance and he could just do it as part of an overall Check.  But there is a risk your Dr. Will tell your mom you spoke with him just as a warning.  Mine never did but someone else here had that problem.  At any rate, he won't tell her you told him until she got her appt so you achieved your goal at any rate even if she's mad.
Hi!

So my mum's short term memory had been declining for a while. We were all worried about it and had been trying to think about how to approach it. She was a nurse all of her life, always thinks she knows about medical things, and flat out refuses to ever see a doctor. When she was pregnant with me she fell, broke her ankle and refused to seek any help and just let it "heal" on its own (was never able to properly walk on it again). So that's what we were working with! Then a year ago she got into a big argument with my dad over something she'd forgotten/got confused about and he threw in her face that we were all worried about her memory. So absolutely the worst possible way of bringing it up and she reacted terribly, was very hurt and we couldn't mention it.

Things then deteriorated and she got more and more confused and forgetful. So we realised it was so serious we had to say something. Because of the situation that had happened before I wanted to be VERY careful about how we approached it and took a lot of advice from the Dementia UK helpline. These were the main things:

- try to approach it at a time where everyone is calm and nothing is threatening. If it is dementia, having silence (no distracting background noises) helps concentration.
- have a very specific example of something that she got confused over. For us it was that my mum forgot my brother was getting married and thought he was already married. From what you say, I wonder if it could be when she phones to apologise for an earlier outburst? I would start keeping a track of what she is saying and when, as this might be useful in a conversation with her and/or her GP if that is needed. Basically the advice was not to be vague about it like "I've noticed you've been a bit confused/forgetful at times", as that is too easy to explain away/not fully understand. 
- try not to 'gang up' with multiple people. People with dementia can get paranoid so don't approach it in a group type situation. If there is one person that the individual particularly trusts, try to preserve that relationship by not involving them. It's about ensuring they feel they have support.
- you don't have to mention the word dementia. Just say you are concerned about confusion/symptoms and stress that it could be a wide range of things (e.g. Vitamin deficiency).

I really hope this is helpful and you get there. Having a more informed and considered approach worked for us the second time. My mum was shocked at first (who wouldn't be) but accepted it and appreciated being asked directly (treated like an adult) and we got her to the GP with a lot of support and reassurance e.g. "we are in this together". I also said "if this were the other way around, you would want me to get checked out, wouldn't you? I'm worried because I love you". Sending love and thoughts from this corner of the Internet.

PS I'm not sure where you are - in the UK we have Dementia UK which is a helpline you can call to talk through things like this, how to approach it and your specific situation with professional dementia nurses and I found all of their advice invaluable. If you are outside of the UK, it would be worth looking for some charities that do a similar thing. Best wishes!
That's really difficult. Could you speak to a doctor first and then tell your mum you are taking her to get her eye-drops? After the doctor gives a dose a few harmless drops the memory test could be the follow up questions as it does involve some reading to follow directions, writing, drawing and identifying pictures. These all could be part of an "eye test".
I think I'm making some headway on the situation hopefully. When I talked to her today she is still insisting she need to get rid of this "mental condition" by going to the old lady's facility (it does not exist), but obviously cannot find any information on who to contact. I told her that if they don't get in touch with her then we will see her Dr. and hopefully they can give us some information. I hope this will at least get her in the door, and I can ask for an evaluation. I feel at this point I need some documentation in her medical chart.
Unfortunately it's complicated in the sense that she see's a retinal specialist every 2 months, and in the past 6 months I've had to take her to the ER and urgent care where they did her labs, tests, etc so she doesn't feel like she needs to see her primary. She is also convinced that this has to be done now at an "old ladies facility (before it was just an old folk's home)"  and she needs at least 3 appointments, and that a regular Dr cannot do it.
I should say if this doesn't work, you might have to take a different route - contacting her GP directly and explaining the situation. Are you able to check if she is able to care for herself OK? If things get to the point where she is struggling to look after herself and you still haven't been able to get her to a doctor, you may need to go down the social services route. We didn't have to do that so perhaps others on here or a specific thread on it might be able to give you some insight. I'd try talking to her about it first, if that doesn't work, go directly to the GP, if that doesn't work, you might have to go down a more direct route. But as I say, if you can try and speak to a dementia nurse/charity helpline, they will be the best people to advise you. I hope all goes well xx
Thank you for the information! Unfortunately I live in the States, so I need to look at the resources here. I personally feel like she should not live alone, but she is still trying to fight for her independence. I think that will only lead to her roaming. She is constantly talking about taking cabs to places, but won't yet allow a caregiver to come in once a week at minimum. I can't see a good outcome until I can convince her to go to her GP.
I'm surprised she remembers when she last had blood work done.  If she doesn't, you could always lie.   I don't understand the old ladies facility thing.  Good luck tho.
