If mom is willing to sign, yes, she can sign any legal document right now as she hasn't been legally deemed mentally incompetent at this point.

However, let's say another family member, or a friend, or heck, even an acquaintance feels like your mom signed those documents while being unduly influenced, they can hire a lawyer and contest those documents.

My suggestion is to get all your ducks in a row. Take her to her doctor, have them test her cognition, and maybe even take her to a neuropsychologist for a more thorough assessment. This way, you have solid evidence that mom is (or isn't) of sound mind.

Let's say her doctors say she's not capable of making her own decisions, then it's time to hire a lawyer and pursue Guardianship.
I dont know honestly if the diagnosis will legally mean she cant sign. To me if she is still sound of mind then its fine. the notary will probably ask her some questions and make sure she understands what shes signing and knows who and where she is. make sure to explain it fully and remind her before you go see the notary. If you have any doubt then consult an elder law atty. But and NAL, I would think the only issue is if someone contested the POA saying she didnt know what she was signing, other than that I would think you're ok.

Best of luck.
a guardianship would be better imho.  as other people mentioned, it gets tricky if her competency is in question and you think someone might contest it.

the process of becoming someone's guardian (at least in florida) requires court appointed professionals to determine if your loved one can make decisions for themselves.

here's the thing:  if they determine they can't make decisions and you're fit to be their guardian, then you're their guardian.

if they determine she does have the capacity to make decisions, then you can have her sign a PoA without fear of someone being able to contest it.

also, you should be careful in either case about the appearance of "self dealing" by paying yourself for anything.  if you accept rent from her, you should definitely pay taxes on it etc. as you would any other rental income.

more importantly, consult a lawyer.  don't print PoA forms etc. there's a lot to this.
Yes, it can. People with a dementia diagnosis can sign legal documents unless they are specifically deemed incompetent by a court or doctor. If you want to feel protected, ask one of your moms doctors to do an assessment of her and write a letter for your records saying she is competent to sign legal documents. The lawyer who would right up the POA may ask for this anyway. They are liable if they do legal paperwork with someone signing who is actually incompetent.
I think in the early stages of dementia it is still possible to be of sound mind, yet not be able to manage finances. My mom still drove after her initial diagnoses. She wasn’t getting lost and could drive well. We let her drive for about 6 months after her diagnosis. But we took over her finances before the diagnosis because she couldn’t do addition or subtraction at that time.
My dad was diagnosed in 2016 and did his will, POA, and end of life directives in 2020. As long as they’re lucid at the signing, in the judgment of the notary or attorney, I’m thinking you can get it done.
The doctor would have to verify that she is still mentally competent. I highly recommend getting a family lawyer who can help draft everything up. Don't just focus on finances. Make sure that you will be allowed to make medical decisions once she is no longer competent to do so. If my dad hadn't had full power of attorney and been able to make both medical and financial decisions for my grandfather, we wouldn't have been able to get him the help he needed once he progressed to where he needed to be in a memory care facility.
Being she has dementia it’ll be an issue ONLY if other close family brother, sister, have an issue otherwise it’s fine but the sooner the better.  BTW get a medical POA first so u must be allowed to be with her anytime she’s at the dr it hospital to made medical decisions and then the “durable POA” for all else
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
Alright, here's where it gets tricky. Depending on the POA, it can either go into effect immediately (when you sign it), or when mom has been deemed mentally incapacitated. Until that POA goes into effect, you can't do anything on her behalf.

Instead, I would take mom to the bank, take the POA with you, and have mom add you as a signor/co-owner to her accounts. Ask them if you can get your own checkbooks/debit card, so that you can help mom pay her bills. If you're a signor on her account, the banks can't do anything in terms of reporting you for elder abuse. Plus, you're keeping all her receipts, which shows you're acting in her best interest.

Now, some piece of advice from personal experience: if you think mom is going to forget that you're helping her with her finances, it probably means she's not of sound mind. From a legal perspective, it may be better to pursue Guardianship, or to at least talk to her doctor about her cognition.

Good luck. I know it's complicated, and it's a huge headache. I just went through all this with my grandma, and it was a lot to take in.
I recommend always involving a lawyer in a POA if you can afford it. I got a very simple general one from the hospital but it didn't cover everything. There are different kinds of POAs.
You’ll require a forensic gerontologist for this to hold up if it is ever contested.
I used LegalZoom. I made it effective immediately. My husband signed in front of the notary at the bank. I didn’t assist him. 

Later, he was deemed incompetent to handle his finances but not incompetent to understand and sign legal documents. We were selling his and my houses and buying one. He knew what we were doing, even if he might have forgotten the details.
You can’t add a name without her signature on a bank form authorizing it and if you have ANYONE who finds out and disputes the signature you’ll be in court and spending your time and money dealing with it.  Sorry it’s not easier but it’s all for protecting the senior from anyone stealing their assets
This is what my mom did when she was still of sound mind, which made managing her finances so much easier. 
The POA came in handy for being added to her investment portfolio so I could manage that, for signing her lease into assisted living, and selling her condo. 
I also used it and a HIPAA that she signed for access to her medical records and pharmacy account so I can easily reorder her medications and set up her doctor appointments. 
Thank goodness she is mostly cooperative and recognizes she needs help.
The only challenge lately is Social Security because I have zero clue which email she may have used to set up her on-line account and their offices have been closed thanks to the pandemic & I don’t have 90 minutes to wait on-hold.
[removed]
[removed]
Alright, so...Social Security IS TOUGH. If I remember correctly, they do not recognize POAs or Guardianships. There is a form you will need to fill out, located here: [https://www.ssa.gov/forms/ssa-1696.html](https://www.ssa.gov/forms/ssa-1696.html)

You will become your mother's representative payee, and receive her payments on her behalf. The way I did it was after I was assigned as grandma's payee, I created an online account for myself, and directed all her payments to our Guardian bank account. What I did was, I filled out the form, faxed it to the SSA office local to my grandma, then called that office a few days later to confirm whether or not they had received it.

SSA is overwhelmed right now cause of the pandemic, so they're hard to get a hold of sometimes. I believe they will also be conducting an interview with you to make sure you are who you say you are.

Good luck!
Idk about the free ones. I added a paragraph for health POA as well. I just kind of made it up from some words from a healthcare POA. 

So far it has been accepted except for:

His 401k required a special form that they supply. We submitted this notarized form. His pension from the government OPM requires he be declared incompetent. He is willing to do that for them but it’s a lot of paperwork.
Depending on the bank they may need it signed in front of them or notarized, sorry, too much at stake to make shortcuts easy
Great advice! Thank you so much!
