My partner always says that when his grandmother wants to go “home,” she really just wants to go somewhere she doesn’t have dementia. She can sense something is wrong, but isn’t sure what it is.
Home might not be a place it might = feeling safe and comfortable, relaxed and like everything is fine. It is very common for dementia patients to want to ‘go home’ and the best thing to do seems to be to agree and redirect: ‘yes can go tomorrow / later but let’s have a cup of coffee first / check the yard / fold the laundry etc first’ or to say something like: ‘could we stay here a while? Could you visit with me a bit longer before you go?’ Of course the response depends on how distressed / angry the person with dementia is.
My grandmother, who has been in AL for 18 months and MC since December, always asks to “go home”. Sometimes she remembers where she used to live, but sometimes she doesn’t even remember what city she lived in, or will ask if I’ve ever been to where she used to live. (She lived there for 35 years, and I was there frequently.)

“Going home” is going back to a life where she could do what she wanted, drive where she wanted, have full agency and ability to do as she pleased. Now she’s in a prison that her failing mind has created for her. She doesn’t have the attention span to read a newspaper article, much less a book. 

Home for her is a symbol of her past. The actual location isn’t remembered clearly and doesn’t really matter.
We go through a similar thing with my dad. He always thinks that we're moving and so he'll go and "pack" his room and then get mad at me and my wife because the rest of the house isn't packed. We've gotten to the point that we just tell him that we've hired movers to come in and move the house so its all taken care of. He does this about 2 times a week at this point. We used to keep all our amazon boxes in the downstairs guest room and then break them down for recycling once a month, but that seemed to trigger the moving delusion even more frequently, so we make sure to either throw the boxes away immediately or store them in the rec room upstairs where he'll never see them. The other similar thing that happens often is that whenever my daughter (14) has a male friend over, he starts talking about her wedding - as in, she's engaged and the wedding is tomorrow. Every single time.

The whole experience to me somewhat illustrates a struggle that I have had as I get used to this. My dad was definitely experiencing signs of dementia and we could tell it was getting worse, but episodes were spaced out weeks apart. About 2 months ago though he had a health event (we're still not really sure what happened) and it was like a switch was flipped and everything turned to 11. Anyway, what I've really struggled with is when its better to go along with whatever the current delusion or hallucination is and when do I need to be firm in trying to explain the situation to him.
My mother does this exact same thing. Her husband has gotten to the point of putting her in the car, driving down the street, turning around and coming back. This tends to make her think this is home again. (She lives in the house she’s lived in since the 80s)
Mom (96) also asks about going home, even though she’s in the same house the last 50 years. I didn’t realize until I read this thread that this is not unusual for dementia patients. Interesting discussion. Thank you.
The 'Home' he wants to go to is a mixture of a memory and longing, longing for a place that is so wonderful. Just like the time I visited my Great Aunt and she didnt believe I ws me because I was much younger in her memory of me.
Home could mean a lot of things. 

For one of my residents it's either the home she was born in, or the home she had with her husband. Could be both too at the same time. 

For another when he said he wanted to go home he ment heaven, as he was a very religious man. And some other residents had no idea what they exactly ment with "home" when asked where they were trying to go. It's complicated and often heartbreaking.
Mom had 2 different "home" places. Where she grew up in a small WI community- the other was Heaven! Once she asked to go home, she was so tired - she said "could we stay here just for tonight then go tomorrow?" Sure we can stay the night, to which she happily replied "we can oh good I'm so tired!" She finally did go to her Heavenly home a short time later!
I just brought my mother to a new apartment where she will have an aide. She wanted to, essentially, go back to the town she has lived in for many years. She was pretty much a shut-in (only went out with me, which was I infrequent), and never spoke to her neighbors.
FIL always wanted to go back home to his house, but that is being renovated and he's aware of that and remembers it too. So he wanted to go back to his state and live with his eldest son so he could help with the renovations. He's visited twice this spring since getting vaccinated and the last time he came home (only a week ago today), he was exclaiming how nice it is here. He misses the people back home, but I think he's realized that our house is more comfortable to live in, which is why he lives here.
Whenever my mom (89 with vascular dementia) asks to go home, she's asking to go to a comfortable place. She's in an assisted living facility with memory care and when she asks to go home its because she's euther got something wrong with her (like a UTI or a headache), or she's had an incident with another resident, or she's having a sundowner episode, or she can't find something she's hidden, or she's hungry, etc. Home isn't a place anymore, its a state of contentment that she is trying to get to that no one can really provide. I know that my mom has a hard time articulating what she needs on her own...we (and her caregivers) have to sort of play 20 questions to see what she's actually wanting or needing. Asking to go home is really asking to go back in time when everything felt better and she could take care of herself.
This is the saddest disease ever!!! Just to watch the daily deterioration of someone you love.   It’s devastating.
I visit my cousin every other week and she wants to live with me until she can find an apartment. She has dementia and needs to be in the nursing home. I finally came up with “you can stay here until you can find a place.”  That seemed to be ok. We’ll see if it works next week when she asks.
We thought the same thing when my dad started saying this.
Wow; this hit me in the gut.
You put it really well! Going home = going back (to before dementia)
I felt the same way when he said that to me.
