Definitely. In the earlier phases, my grandma acted very childish, threw epic tantrums and when I tried to calm her or intervene in any way, she’d say stuff like “who are you telling me what to do?”  Almost like a kid saying “you’re not my mom!”
As a kid grows their brain learns how to process emotions in healthy ways that mean tantrums are not needed, as the dementia affects more of the brain this process can be reversed because it affects the patients language skills, all this to say that yes this could be a early symptom of dementia.
Yes, the brain dies so that eventually they are a small child
Everything you've described seems as though it's pointing to signs/symptoms of Dementia. The advice given by kitkatinkerbell is absolutely true. As their language skills start to deteriorate, often times you will notice more & more childlike behavior. It's also said that those behaviors are now more prevalent because the memories are so distant, that's really the closest thing they remember since so much in between becomes a haze. Hence why so many call out for Mom & Dad, or even their grandparents decades after they've been gone. Does she have insurance? I would suggest she be seen by a neurologist to see if a diagnosis can be made. It's helpful to know this, especially if there was something else that's partially exacerbating her dementia symptoms. Sometimes taking too much medication can give someone a lot of confusion, or even just one medication can have a negative effect on someone. The neurologist will be able to help determine if there are any specific aggravators that could be eliminated. I also recommend a book called 'The Caregiver's Guide to Dementia' by Gail Weatherill. It'll be really great for any family members who want to be more informed, but especially anyone who is interacting with her.
Yes. My mother has FTD and she can be quite childish acting. 5 years in.
Jup this sounds very similar to my mother in law who has ftd. (Except for the angry part, she’s always very agreeable but to much as well.) She only got her diagnosis last year but we’ve been seeing the signs for years. She became less interested in the world around her and told the same stories over and over and laughed about everything and anything as some kind of catch phrase. She also came across more childlike due to being overly enthusiastic and not knowing physical boundaries like hugging and kissing her kids and friends. This started years ago but last year she started actively having speech problems or in other words she could not hide it anymore and that’s when she finally got a diagnosis and some form of help.
YES. Absolutely. actually try to get it diagnosed and soon because there is medicine that slows down the progression of the disease. 

I literally got a little “temper tantrum logbook” which prompts questions for incidents like “what triggered it? Hunger, tired, shakeup in routine....” as well as “what worked? What did NOT work?” To try and find a pattern with meltdowns... it’s meant for toddlers but I actually use it for my grandmothers sundowning episodes
It is really scary how many parts of a person dementia can take away.
sorry to hear that about your grandma.... the behavior sounds familiar, i’ve heard that phrase quite often from my family member :/
thanks for the reply, yep it’s pretty sad to think about but that’s life i guess ::(
does it happen along with normal aging or is it connected to dementia?
I would say childish behavior is not a normal sign of aging, that could definitely be dementia. Cognitive decline isn't always dementia related, it could be an effect of medications or health concerns.

I would recommend getting her in to see a doctor/specialist as quickly, as possible for cognitive testing. The reason I recommend doing it quickly is, the quicker dementia is spotted in a dementia sufferer, the better the ability to manage and slow the progression of the disease. They can't cure it right now, but symptoms can be more delayed
I feel for you: my experience lately with both of my parents is like trying to manage children over whom you have no authority. Neither have dementia. 

Still, I'm with the other Redditors who say to get her checked out.
The brain starts shrinking at age 20, that's justva normal part of aging. Our intellect gradually declines  as we age.

Edit, the brain doesn't stop developing until 25. My mistake
No, normal aging does not include dementia, but this graph shows how the % of people w/dementia increases with age. https://imgur.com/gallery/fERsBRq Only a very small % of people in their 60’s have dementia, but by their 80’s, 20% of men and ~28% of women have it. It’s very helpful to see a neurologist, and Teepa Snow videos. Wishing you all as smooth a road ahead as possible.
This is incorrect. The brain isn’t even fully formed until 25.
Yeah, that's my mistake, I will delete. I apologize
