Ahh, my sad, lonely demented future unfolding in my mind. No kids or spouse and asexual so not gunning for either. A lot of burned bridges and no chance to make new ones since I'm stuck taking care of my own demented mother. Welp. Better win the lottery!
You ask a very important question, and one that any single person with symptoms should be scared to death of, I couldn’t even imagine.  Now if this person knows he/she has symptoms they should have a heart to heart with a counselor or physician.  It may be possible with a Drs letter be able to get admitted somewhere when the time comes.  That’s about as scary as can be
Lol...I think about this all the time watching my dad decline. I’m single, no kids, and the youngest in my family. I am absolutely looking at having to figure out my senior years by myself and I really hope my friends will keep an eye on me.
Here in the US, their situation can quickly become dire.  They may end up homeless on the streets.  If they have planned for the eventuality they may have a personal representative designated to care for them but there are a thousand ways that can go wrong and fail them.  Just another huge hole in the US's safety net.  I'm going to guess that other countries with more robust public health systems may offer better options but I'm guessing that most societies still lean heavily on family shouldering most of the burden.
Get a geriatric care manager while you are still able to as an early person to intervene when dementia starts.
check the "Living Alone" section at >> [https://truthfulkindness.com/about/d-info/links-sx-strategies/](https://truthfulkindness.com/about/d-info/links-sx-strategies/) .
Are you really asexual?
Here's a big fingers crossed for you. I'm in your same boat. We'll figure it out!
Yes
I'm pulling for you as well! At least we know now that we have to look out for ourselves. That gives us an edge i think!!
since birth or aquired? if you are not comfortable , plz don’t answer. I find asexuality a fascinating topic. I’m a med nerd.
Figured it out 20 years ago. Thought there was something wrong with me. I believed I had to settle for someone because it's "what you do." Everybody was settling down and seemed so happy. I didn't want any of it, and didn't know what I was going to do.

I was miserable about the idea of getting married, having kids, having to put up with sex I was not interested in. It's difficult to explain to someone who hasn't experienced the pressure from movies, society, tv, just everything and everywhere--the idea that you will find someone and, more than that, you're supposed to. I eventually did a google search and it was pretty amazing to find an answer that just clicked. I'm not sick or wrong or broken. I don't need to be fixed. 

Life has been a lot easier since then. And recently a lot more people are out and vocal so I'm not so alone. Twenty years ago people made that lame joke about "So you can reproduce by yourself? Har har. That's what asexual means. Ha ha." Have not had to hear that in years. It's nice.
I thought asexual was more that a person has no innate desire to be in a romance with any other being. That they are happy and content with being alone
There's a spectrum for asexuality. I am not interested in sex and also not interested in romance. Aromatic is an ace who is not interested in romance, which is maybe what you were thinking it was limited to. But many ace people are romantic. I'm not one of them, however.

Your med nerd habits will love learning about the spectrum for aces.
Hi! I also consider myself an asexual. Like SafeFire\_Fan mentioned below, it's a spectrum. I'm one of the romantic aces that they mentioned. I'm in a sexual relationship (engaged, actually), have a normal social life with friends, go out drinking at bars, enjoy hanging out with coworkers, meeting people with the same hobbies and etc. I'm pretty social and love talking to and meeting new people.

I think I first realized something was different in late elementary school/middle school when all my friends were pairing off, talking to boys, going on dates and etc. I remember being really sad around that time. Like, "OK...but why can't we all just be friends and hang out together all the time?"

I never developed a crush on anyone during my teen years. My friends would talk about so-and-so celebrity and how hot they were and I was usually like, "He he, yeah, oh yea. He sure is one hot guy!" to play along, but honestly I've just never looked at anyone (in my social group or in Hollywood) and fantasized about sex with them.

For a brief while, I thought...maybe I'm sexually attracted to women? But that didn't fit either because, well, I wasn't. Like my desire to sleep with women was pretty on par with my desire to sleep with men.

For a long time, I just assumed that I just have never met the right guy. I've disappointed and turned down a lot of good guys because of this. I also developed a reputation for being "too picky". And when I finally did develop a crush on someone and slept with them, sex with him or any of the other partners I tried it with didn't blow my mind like my friends and Hollywood said it would.

As I mentioned, I'm in a sexual relationship now with my fiance. I met him before I realized that being ace was a thing, but at the time I did feel a strong enough romantic connection to think that a relationship could work and that maybe the sexual attraction would come with getting to know someone better. But, as with everyone before him, no sexual attraction at first sight.

The sex is great for him and I enjoy the touching and intimacy of the act, but if we never had sex again it wouldn't bother me. However, it's enjoyable for him, which in turn makes me happy. I have mentioned that I thought I was on the ace spectrum to him and it doesn't really impact our relationship, although he has told me that he's disappointed that I don't finish/enjoy the sex on the same level as him.
There maybe be crossover with Schizoid Personality as they have asexuality as well. Altho it’s not necessarily a “disorder” perse

Schizoid personality disorder (/ˈskɪtsɔɪd, ˈskɪdzɔɪd/, often abbreviated as SPD or SzPD) is a personality disorder characterized by a lack of interest in social relationships, a tendency toward a solitary or sheltered lifestyle, secretiveness, emotional coldness, detachment and apathy. Affected individuals may be unable to form intimate attachments to others and simultaneously possess a rich and elaborate but exclusively internal fantasy world.[6][12] Other associated features include stilted speech, a lack of deriving enjoyment from most activities, feeling as though one is an "observer" rather than a participant in life, an inability to tolerate emotional expectations of others, apparent indifference when praised or criticized, a degree of asexuality, and idiosyncratic moral or political beliefs.[13] Symptoms typically start in late childhood or adolescence.[6]
There isn't, and implying that there is a disorder involved with being asexual to someone who is asexual is insulting. You should spend some time researching so you don't make missteps like that in the future. 

There are some significant gaps in your understanding of asexuality. Take some time to research. Ignorance isn't a failing, but remaining ignorant is.
no i said it should NOT be labeled a disorder if you re-read what I wrote versus the succeeding exerpt. The excerpt however says there may be some degrees or asexuality at the bottom.
