Visual hallucinations are a hallmark of Lewy Body Dementia but I'm not sure if audio hallucinations are too
My mother hallucinated a lot. "Neighborhood boys" would come in and live in her guest rooms, eat her food, and use her makeup. Quite a (hallucinatory) party.
First symptom for my grandma was auditory hallucinations. She heard music and thought the neighbors were throwing wild parties-they were not. 

It evolved into her having conversations with people through the wall and major paranoia. 

Then she started having full blown visual hallucinations and having false memories and losing her ability to reason.
It could be audio hallucinations or it might be tinnitus.
My mum was diagnosed only last week with mixed dementia. I first contacted our GP because she was hearing things. She would complain about hearing music non stop coming from next door when it was silent to me. Then she started getting out of bed thinking there were people downstairs talking loudly, and she could even hear conversations and say what they were. This was happening a couple of nights a week.

It's been difficult to get her checked out during lockdown, but she's since had bloods, a brain scan and an assessment from the memory clinic. During this time she told me during last summer she saw some birds inside a bath robe hung on her wardrobe. That's the only one she's had, she says.

It's strange because her memory's poor, but no more poor than someone else at 80. Apart from the audio hallucinations (which she says have gone now), she seems really together. 

She has predominately vascular dementia with AD. The memory clinician's calling on Friday to tell her (I'm the only one who knows).  Ugh.

Seems that hearing music isn't a rare thing.
Hallucination Types by Truthful Kindness at https://truthfulkindness.com/2020/01/26/hallucination-types/ ;
Yes they are, I hear my wife ask me something and she’s not in the room and said nothing, I also see (usually periferaly ) that aren’t there and the worst, I have some really vivid nightmares almost every night, I have Lewy Body
what fun! haha sometimes we have to laugh so we don't cry :)
Sending love
I am so sorry to hear that. My father does as well, he's only 64. Sending love your way!
Thanks so much. X
Thank u, I just turned 60, diagnosed at 56ish
Wow so young! I’m so sorry to hear that.
