You take the car in for "repairs" and you park it at your house and don't give it back.  You tell them their car insurance does not cover someone at their age (a white lie).  You hide their keys.   You borrow the car and don't give it back.   It's one of the toughest things to do.  But it could be tragic for many people if they end up in an accident.  The first thing anyone will say, if your LO gets into an accident is, "Why did their family let them drive?"  Everyone will blame you. 

That's really disappointing their doctor didn't back you up on this.
Depends on the country you're in. In the UK you have to inform the DVLA and insurer immediately (invalid insurance if you drive before doing so). Its up to the Dr to decide if you are safe to drive and can say stop until further tests (reaction speed, vision etc) or just stop.

Edit: if they've had a stroke rules state that you must not drive within 1 month. Depending on where the stroke is, tia vs stroke etc you may be unable to drive, have to inform dvla etc. 
https://www.stroke.org.uk/life-after-stroke/driving
I feel for you. I don’t have any answers, yet. I agree with the person that suggests talking to her doctor. I believe it’s my responsibility to do whatever I can to keep them safe. I am in a very similar situation with my dad. To make matters even worse, my mom is letting him drive. She told me it’s none of my business. I said that it is my business because that’s my dad. 
I’m looking into what options I have to try to stop a certain train wreck.
From what I understand, in many places even if it's not the person with dementia's fault, they can be cited as a factor in any accident they're in if they have a dementia diagnosis. So beside the point of grandma possibly killing someone, grandma completely innocently gets bumped by someone and gets sued... Insurance could refuse to cover it and there goes any savings Grandma has for her care later on. I've spoken to a couple of people who have had this happen.

Maybe explain it that way to her. It may or may not help. We tried with my mom, her response was to call her doctor's office and insist that the word dementia was removed from her medical records... that didn't happen but she didn't remember later to check anyway. We finally went with "Your heart doctor wants you to take a break from driving until you're blood pressure gets under control." Kicked the can down the road for the rest of her life, every time it came up, "We'll have to check with him the next time we go see him." Then we'd forget to ask the next time we were in. Mom wouldn't listen to her regular doctor but her cardiologist, she would.
In many, if not all, states you can send a form to the DMV requesting a medical review of a driver. In my state, once the form is received by the DMV the person has 30 days to get a medical evaluation from a doctor confirming that they're safe to continue driving. I do understand that her current doctor has already said she's OK to drive, but he may be a little more cautious about making an official statement to that effect.
Many states have a form you can fill out to request a test for an elderly driver. 
Many docs seem to give advice based on the short appointment where you see the patient. We know as caregivers that many memory cycles loop in 30 min or 1 hour increments, etc. A nurse friend also told me that dementia patients are great at pretending they are ok when they sense some freedoms about to be taken away.
I’m sorry about your situation. I think disclosing at least country/state, if not county/city, would be helpful.

I posted a similar question just a few weeks ago and had some helpful answers. I haven’t resorted to any of them yet, as I’m still talking to doctors about the legalities where I live.

That said, which doctor said yes without seeing her? Can you talk to another doctor, like the one who diagnosed her with CVD? (Um, that’s not covid!) 
Also, are there any sort of aging services agencies where you live?
I felt like the crazy one in my family for insisting that my grandma needed to stop driving. The rest of my family would just shrug and say that we couldn't force her to stop. I told them that we could, by calling her doctor and telling him how many dings I noticed on the car, and my grandma outright telling me that she was hitting things and thought it was kind of funny that she had a hard time driving. The doctor could alert the DMV and have her license revoked. The rest of my family really just didn't want to have that confrontation or go behind her back. Eventually we kind of solved the problem because my grandma moved in with me and I insisted that I "didn't have room" for her car (total BS), and then after beating her down with a lot of conversations she agreed to sell it. What a huge relief. She now believes that my aunt stole the car and sold it and kept the money from the sale, but it doesn't matter. This is a tough and awkward thing to have to do, but I told my family if my grandma killed a pedestrian or something that was on us for not stopping her. I could not live with that guilt. She doesn't have the ability to make decisions for herself, and I think my family is finally realizing that that is the case.
[deleted]
Where I live, the insuring party will take away or reduce thier license based on testing.
Here in California we can drop a dime to the DMV and say the person needs to be tested. We did this for my dad. Even when he couldn't find his car to start the test, they agreed to give him a second chance. We lied and said they revoked his license and tossed Mail from them. He was angry but he was a rule follower. Plus we took the keys. Can you do that over there?
“I would rather see you sad because you can’t drive, than sad because you killed somebody”

Is the problem that her home is too far outside of town so she basically can’t leave her house without driving? Maybe moving her to a place that is in a little village downtown next to buses (and putting location tracking on her phone) would make her feel more independent, without the risk of giving a deadly weapon to a cognitively impaired person.
we dragged out the repairs that were needed, but we cannot lie or invent repairs she still has her wits enough.
You cannot steal someone’s car. You’re also not to blame for your parent having a car wreck. You can keep trying to convince them to take cabs, you can keep talking to their doctor to see about getting their license revoked due to medical reasons. I wouldn’t recommend stealing it or taking it anywhere without permission. 

My grandma kept driving till 93 years old. She was having regular hallucinations and I was very concerned she’d hurt someone. I had no POA at that time and could not force medical care or make her do anything-much less hand over her car. 

Sorry, but during that time the last thing I needed to hear is that I was responsible for her actions. I was not. Not sure about the logistics for the OP, but I was 1200 miles away. I called everyone I could think of for help and got no where for years. 

That being said, when I moved her to my house, I parked her car and unhooked the battery. I’ve since sold it, but I have POA now and have the legal right to do so. I believe her drivers license is still valid. She’s 99. 

Tough situation for sure, and certainly don’t stop trying, but none of us (unless we have guardianship or something) are responsible for old age, the effects of dementia or the consequences of another adults actions. This is something that I needed to know so I could get through this with sanity intact. Otherwise I was eaten up with anxiety.
4 years ago she had a major set back and didn't drive for a year or so. She did become better again, better speach, better motor function But now the decline is getting worse - this time more gradually and more spread into a wider specter of functions: speach, time, logic, sleep pattern, motoric issues, slow walking, memory, making things up, etc.
I am really sure she couldnt pas a cognitive standard test. But I can't force her to take it.
We live in an European country. Some of the service we have set up for her is private, and some of it is paid by taxes.

 My parent gets a lot of age service - and she hides the fact that she is still driving from them. Thats how I found out she is still driving. 

She has a shopping service, where groceries are brought to her, but she had shopped by car anyways. 

And, now she needed help bringing the goods in from the car - and couldn't ask home carer, bc then she would maybe not be entitled to shopping service ... (she is though - it is a part of the private service she pays her self ...)
Omg my mom admitted to 3 hit and runs to me  and still refused to give up driving. The car looked terrible. I was terrified she would be arrested so I filled out the state form to make an elderly person retest. That worked thank god.
no, there is not. It is a great problem. I asked her to take the cognitive test at the doctors voluntarily. But, I can't force her.
yes she lives outside public transportation in her walking distance. But she is also very stubborn. And now she has passed the time where moving/ downsizing makes any sense- the next move is gonna be a nursing home 2-3 years from now, whether she wants or not :-(

Note to self: move to a practical home when you are in your late 60'.

No, I can't take her in, I have 3 days of patience, before I want to kill her, though I love her.

However she has enough to take a taxi everytime she needs/ wants to  go anywhere. But stubborn here too: when she grew up, taking a taxi was decadent luxury ..
Ugh I reluctantly but heavily agree with you. I'm staunch about personal freedoms, but I also feel very strongly about the capabilities of drivers. Do a simple google search and just see how many people with early stages of dementia that go on a sunday drive and wind up stranded in the middle of nowhere, hungry and thirsty, or even worse, become so disoriented and confused about where they are they panic and cause damage or injury to someone or themselves. It is very common.

It's a touchy subject - the topic of personal freedoms and the freedom to drive. I don't have all the answers. I don't even have any suggestions. There's just no middle ground. Either they can get behind the wheel or they cannot. :/ you cant force them to do almost anything without POA. Even with POA, there is a high likelihood of non-compliance of some sort with dementia. Its not a straightforward situation. But I agree with you.
when the grandchild delivered the car back, they made sure it was allmost empty of gazolin, since my parent cannot hold the gaz handle herself. But one of my parents good friends filled the car with gaz for her  ( sigh)
You can contact the person’s physician. They can’t disclose information go you, but you can listen to family members’ concerns. 

You know people have been killed by elderly drivers who shouldn’t have been on the road anymore, right? That’s like saying you have no responsibility if you see your loved one about to drive drunk. It’s not about age, it’s about dementia symptoms. Doing nothing is irresponsible & dangerous. 

My grandmother complained for about 3 years after we took her keys. But she couldn’t drive safely anymore, prior to her diagnosis even. She did things like lock her keys in the car at the grocery store (while it was still running?) & fell a few times which left her too frail to safely drive on her own.
My grandma was still somehow able to pass her exams. WTF. She failed one but came back the next day and passed it. I was so surprised.
I understand. My grandmother is much the same way. She went blind while she was still more or less cognitively capable, and lives in a neighborhood with a small shopping center a short walk away (quite rare in America outside the downtowns of major cities) so the “take away the keys” problem didn’t come up. It is definitely ideal to plan it that way. 

Although she is quite stubborn about other things… she broke her hip tripping on the front porch when she snuck outside alone for a cigarette.

Is there anyway you can get her seen by a neurologist directly?
Pull a spark plug out.
I like this. Nothing says you gotta make it easy to drive. :)
Of course I’m aware of the dangers involved. 

And there is a lot of room between “doing nothing” and stealing someone’s car. 

Bottom line is that I am not the responsible party for another adult’s actions. Of course I would (and have done) my best to keep my grandma and society at large safe. If she had hurt someone, however, that would NOT be my fault. People feel guilty enough as it is during the early phases of trying to get appropriate help for a loved one without being told they are responsible for how things turn out. We are not. We do what we are able and willing to do.
good idea! I will try to sell it as a recovery plan!
