In a nutshell, we posed it to my dad as going to his appointment to prove to the doctor that he does not have dementia. It worked the first time when he was diagnosed with mild dementia, and it worked the second time when he was diagnosed with moderate dementia. Good luck. This is all just the shits.
Oh I wish I had them!  I can tell you that we had a great primary for my mom and were able to talk with her.  We planned the “routine” visit with her to check her thyroid and blood work to make sure cancer had not returned.  

Awful, but the only way we could do it.  My mom ended up having a break (delusions etc.) and was hospitalized.  If you can get her to the emergency room for a reason, things can happen this way too but have a place set to transfer her to from there.  Not from home as we did, and was horrifying but had to be done because she was so unsafe (after providing care for her there for years).  

Best of luck to you and hang in there!
I'm in the same boat! I live halfway across the country from my parents. I came to their house in early May assuming a one week visit was enough, and it looks like I'm here for  most of the summer (I took a Leave of Absence from work). The first week I was here it was apparent that Dad couldn't handle this alone and that Mom hadn't seen a neurologist for almost 2 years.  She'd been canceling her appointments, telling my Dad that they cancelled, not her. I got her an appointment and she said she'd go - then changed her mind. She had a massive meltdown for almost 2 hours. She was out of control and actually came at me as if to hit me - yikes. My Dad is absolutely baffled and has no idea what to do - so I told her that she was seeing a doctor of some sort that day. Her decision. Get in the car and see the neuro, or I'd call an ambulance and they'd take her to the ER (the local hospital has a geriatric psychiatric area). This of course elevated the tantrum to an entirely new level. I just kept my cool and told her that she DID have a choice, and that if she didn't make it, I would. Car or Ambulance. 

We had to dress her. She tried to lock herself in the toilet. It was awful. 

We finally got there and found out about the cancellations, etc.  The doctor prescribed thee medications, two of which she should have been taking for 2 years now (he was her neuro back then and prescribed Aricept and Namenda). The meds helped - I think (or we just got lucky) for a few days then the paranoia and acting out came back. 

This is hard. I had to take the "Tough Love" approach which sucked - but we got her there. I'm thankful her doctor is so good at what he does.   I'm sorry you're dealing with this. Hopefully knowing you're not alone helps.
It is the shits indeed. That’s a good idea though, I was actually thinking of trying that since she’s so convinced that she doesn’t have it. Thank you!
Thank you. I’m sort of new to this whole thing.. so what exactly is a “break?” Like a psychotic break? This happens often? And they have to go to the ER/be hospitalized? What were the symptoms, just very bad delusions? 

Sorry for all of the questions, I just didn’t know that was a possibility and I want to make sure it’s on my radar!
Wow that’s great that you were able to stay strong. My hurdle now is getting her to the doctor but if he gives her medications I then have to get her to take them (she’s already not taking her bp medication!). She lives with her long-time boyfriend but he is useless in this. He’s very lazy and is obviously depressed and overwhelmed by taking care of her. It’s so hard to be so far away but her and I don’t have the best relationship so I was far away for a reason! I may have to go home for some visits though.
https://www.alzinfo.org/understand-alzheimers/dementia-vs-alzheimers

The above link may help and give you a sense of whether symptoms for your mom are similar to those with Alzheimer’s dementia or other forms of dementia (think there are 5 or so classified now but the former the most common).  

We knew it was likely Alzheimer’s for my mom because her dad had early onset as well as several of his siblings and some of their children.  There can be a genetic component but it is complex with environmental interactions for each individual.  My mom hid it as best she could from shear terror not wanting to face it, well into the 5th stage — link below for those.  

https://www.alzinfo.org/understand-alzheimers/clinical-stages-of-alzheimers/

It isn’t uncommon for people to have symptoms  from one stage present in others, or to seem to go “up and down” rather than decline only over time.  My mom definitely experienced this and we used to be tortured by what we later said the evil plaque gave us only glimpses of — her former self — before taking them away again.  She was herself or seemingly again at times, though fewer and fewer instances over time.  

I do believe my mom’s stress and anxiety truly understanding what was coming helped her both hide it for so long as well as pushed/prompted the delusions after her loss of independence (she had retired, withdrawn, no longer could drive safely, and no more driving  seemed the final straw).  These things can happen with dementia in general but also may not, and can vary in intensity.  

Af this time, my mom could no longer hide or control her paranoia and delusions.  For example: she had started telling stories to my sister when I was buying a house that I was having the bank come inspect her house; there was something to me about money in her bed they were looking for; she was sure Matt Lauer from GMA was talking to her through her tv; and someone in the neighborhood had a car-thief ring going on.  Oh boy! 

https://www.alz.org/help-support/caregiving/stages-behaviors/suspicions-delusions

Honestly, we had to laugh because it was funny (not at my mom or around her of course but humor was what got us through).  She was actually fairly calm in this stage and not angry as she became later.  She was convinced the delusions were real and had no qualms sharing them with us.  Luckily, we could talk to her physician and had set that up earlier thank goodness when convincing my mom we needed to “help with the bills.”

For example, her electric was turned off for nonpayment and my mother was the most scrupulous bill payer and frugal living person her whole life and ours.  She also started to make excessive purchases from TV ads for things she never used like a massage chair.  If you can get this consent to talk to a doctor from your mom this way, do!  

HIPAA can present challenges in privacy protections.  There is normally no way the person usually gives it in the later stages without some sort of rouse implemented unless they are aware enough and plan for this early on.  Sad to say.  Appease and do what you need to do — don’t try to rationalize or to argue, those efforts become futile.  

When we took my mom to her doctor she started talking about zen people coming to kill her, hmmm, nice and calmly to the doctor.  There was no need to tell the doctor our concerns.  Her doctor sent her to the hospital to be “checked” and they admitted her to the psych ward and then moved her to geriatric care.  She was officially diagnosed at that point.  

A few other anecdotes, she flourished at the hospital and after based on what we fondly called “the happy meds.”   She had struggled with depression/anxiety as she aged more and more, because her brain was no longer able to compensate for it to function as she always had.  

Interestingly, a suspected eating disorder was confirmed as well — our whole lives she ate very little because she was “unable” to eat more.  We found drawers full of laxatives in her house and she ate voraciously at the hospital!   Wild.  My mom also smoked for about 50 years swearing she could never stop but quit as if it was nothing after returning home.  

So one of the reasons I suggest finding the place and planning ahead when your mom goes or you take her to hospital, is that she can be transferred from there rather than trying to do this transition from her home.  My mom was not capable of caring for herself after that hospital stay.  In fact, I not only lived with her on and off for years, I would have to come for falls, hospital trips, etc. despite not living close and hiring two and then three caregivers for her.  

If you haven’t already and are in the US, contact your local Office for the Aging.  They are run by Health Departments and in other countries as well, and though services can vary a bit we found ours really helpful re: care options, legal concerns, Medicaid, respite care, etc.  I am so sorry you are facing this and I know how completely overwhelmed you likely feel.  I am happy to answer any questions or listen to venting, we did plenty!   Feel free to DM me.

Edits
Yes!  I am happy to tell you, it is very common with Alzheimer’s.  I will be back on later and write a full response!
Thank you so very much for this amazing response! I’ve read it over 4 times now. You’ve included so many details that I really think will help me, thank you. 

I see some parallels between my mother and yours, though I think my mom is only at stage 4 currently. I am not looking forward to the delusions (that Matt Lauer one so wild!). She’s stretching the truth right now but not having full-blown delusions. Can’t wait! 

I think I will attempt to have a doctor help me with getting medical POA. The problem is that I live 8 hrs away from her so it’s going to be complicated. 

Thank you for the advice on the Office on Aging, I saw them online and was thinking of giving them a call, now I definitely will. I need lots of help with switching her to Medicaid.

One question for you, and I’m sorry if it’s personal (feel free to not answer). You mentioned that both your mom and her dad had it..I am the same way.. my mom has it and her mother had it as well (with her mother it was 1980 and as far as I’ve been told it was just labeled “dementia” and not a specific type. She got it when she was 62 and was dead a year later, no autopsy performed). So... I’m having panic attacks thinking that I am going to get this. It’s bad enough that my mom has it but her mom too! How could it possibly NOT happen to me? How do you deal with this fear?
Thank you so much for this.  It really helped.  Today is the first day I am coming to terms with this.
You are so very welcome!  Happy to answer anything!  Wish I had found Reddit when I was going through all of this — would have been on it asking questions all the time.  

Yes, my mom’s family did have it and so we were as concerned as she was about her as well as my siblings.  Irony is that I am in the middle, adopted but my risk is similar after a car accident (long ago head trauma that happened them but was of an immediate concern).  We actually tried to get my Mom to participate in a study her sister’s were in with their docs sending blood samples.  Although she said she did it we had our doubts, never heard anything more.  

So yes, it is a terrifying prospect and I do understand your fear very well.  My only reassurances are that even the indicators from blood work are not a determination anyone will get it.  So much is that environmental and genetic interaction, or all of my grandfather’s siblings would have had it.  We don’t know enough but the docs and researchers do know diet, exercise, stress reduction, and keeping your brain learning are keys to prevention.  Likely true for most things with health! 

Get the shingles vaccine when old enough (long story but relationship with that virus among other conditions including anxiety/depression). 
Also, you should share all the medical history you have with your primary and ask for baseline testing as you get older.  Simple questionnaires for you and your family as well as bloodwork can be done, and followed up by an MRI etc. if there are any concerns. 

Those closest to you can be on notice as you also complete a medical directive for yourself that you can find online and share with your doctor.  Note that any family member disagreeing with wishes you over no life-saving efforts to be made in any event like that will stop your wishes from being honored.  Important to talk to those who love you about what you want in the event. 

Medical research is advancing all the time.  So much is promising.  We love longer, and we suffer more in some ways as a result.  Aging presents more challenges for us all but we also can have a lot of hope and love our lives while we have them!
Thank you so much for all of the advice. I will look into talking to my doctor and getting the shingles vaccine (I didn’t know about that connection!). I do hope that environment and lifestyle has a lot to do with it. My grandma smoked heavily, took scary diet drugs, and was an alcoholic. My mom doesn’t smoke or drink but she doesn’t have a great diet and has never exercised. I unfortunately struggle with stress and depression but thankfully eat pretty well. I think I can make some changes and increase my exercise and decrease my alcohol intake.. plus work on my stress levels! Thanks again!
You are very welcome.  Hang in there and post!
