It is different when it is your family. Hire a company for some respite care. It will do you good.
You're caring for you father, you cannot be impartial. Everything that happens to him will affect you probably very deeply. This is why I cannot take care of my father, I know it would be too much for me mentally and emotionally. If you have friends or family that can help you I would suggest getting them to help you. You might consider an outside caregiver but I don't know your situation. You're not a failure, you are doing the best you can and any father that loves their child would be grateful, they would also want you to take care of yourself too. Best of luck to you.
I’ve had the same thoughts. But here’s the thing, when  it’s your job you are getting paid. You are not emotionally attached in the same way. When the work day is done you clock out and get on with your life. When you are caring for a loved one, there is no clocking out. It’s with you 24/7 even if you manage to have a few moments to yourself. I thought my background would make caregiving for my parent a piece of cake. It’s anything but that. The dynamic is completely different. You are stepping up and doing your best, go easy on yourself.
Just do your best to keep yourself and him safe and healthy.  If that means using an adult daycare when you need a nap or to go grocery shopping or get a pedicure then do it.  It’s an insurmountable task. And not one your father would have asked if you when he was more himself. He didn’t raise you to be this.   Use the help in your community adt daycare social services elder services to be able to be the word derful you your father raised you to be.
Caregiving will drain your soul. Maybe if you can afford it, hire someone to watch him a weekend out the month.
I have basically given my life to my father who praise everyone that does the tiniest things for him except me. Not that I desire praise just a thank you or appreciation. After almost having a mental breakdown I decided to take my life back while still being his caregiver. Making myself a priority.
It's been a slow process but nevertheless a process.
Best of luck to you.
What a difficult situation; the peeing everywhere would be bad enough but destroying things?  Venting is good.  You are struggling with being chained to your father. The feeling of entrapment is real. I have felt this numerous times over the last several years.  As I told my siblings, there are no days off.  When you work for a company or organization, you get the weekends and holidays to yourself.  Not so for the family caregiver.  It is tiring. Even when I have time away, as I did recently, I am thinking about what is needed when I get back.  I stocked up on items my Dad needs.  I ran to different stores to get his sugar free items.  I wish you the best and hope that you will find a way to have more time for yourself.
No person  should have to live like this.  Unchain yourself.    It's  time to start taking care of yourself again, and not feel guilty about it.    If he acts like a child  (peeing / destroying).,  it's time to treat him like a child , and perhaps he needs to wear an adult diaper, so you can sleep through the night.   Perhaps it's time that he goes to managed care.  I don't know if that would be a nursing home, or assisted living, and I know that may depend on finances  .   My mother cancelled her long-term care insurance (after paying on it for 15 years), and I'm pretty sure she meant for me to be her "long term care"  nurse.    Please, please don't feel like a failure, if it's "time" for him to go to managed care.   And don't feel you have to be his guardian.  Perhaps the state can appoint one.  Or, you can remain his guardian, but turn over caregiving.   If he cannot afford it,  check into getting him on Medicaid.    Because you are looking at ruining your own health, to keep him "semi-healthy" as he ages.    Don't . Feel. Guilty.    Please take care of yourself.
Yes, please get some respite care.
