That's an ethnical dilemma. 3 days without water is about max. 

"Should we start preparing for her death..."

If you decide to override her own expressed wishes because you believe she doesn't understand what she's saying, then no. I might respect her wishes. But, this goes against modern-Western values.
Who is providing your 24 hour care? Is it all family or do you have hospice or home health support? If so can they send someone out to give their opinion? If not can you call and request a hospice eval ASAP given the drastic change in circumstances? For me I would want someone else besides me, especially a health official, to be part of this conversion.
When was she diagnosed?
I assume she’s not in a care facility? 
If not, have you taken her to her doctor?
If this is a drastic, sudden change, it could be worth it to test her for a UTI. Those can cause lots of changes in a person with dementia.
I'm so sorry you're going through this. 

I'm also sorry, I'm not a native speaker but I hope it makes sense. 

With vascular dementia there can be rapid changes in mental state and behavior. That makes it hard to pinpoint when the time is that someone is when the terminal phase approaches. I see in other comments you ruled out reasons for developing a delirium, although a small stroke could also be a reason for that. If her state rapidly declined, you could also evaluate her for having a retention bladder, as that is a common problem that's easily resolved. Another thing to be aware of is her blood glucose levels, especially in case she has known diabetes. 

But all in all you need to ask yourself this question: is it worth it to try and make her eat and drink again? There's several aspects to think about: 

\- Well-being: you mentioned her well-being became better with proper care. At this moment, do you think the current level of well-being is sufficient for her to justify "fighting for survival?" If treating anything succesfully, given her dementia, she can only go back to her last "level of wellbeing" (if it works). Do you think that would've been worth it to her, had she been able to answer that question herself? 

\- Expectations for the future: Given her vascular dementia, eventually, her symptoms will get worse. This of course doesn't necessarily mean her well-being gets worse as well. But even if she survives this situation, there will be more situations like this to come. Is that worth it for the the good moments she has? Or do those moments not weigh up to the moments in which she might be suffering? 

\- Your perspective on not eating/drinking: Not eating and drinking is a natural step in the process of dying. For many people though, it feels as if they are starving someone by not making sure they get food/drinks. She gives a signal though by not accepting anything. As you might know, giving food via a tube ha a risk of aspiration pneumonia. Usually if we give anything, we only do it for a short period of time. Seeing as fluids are more important for survival than food, it could be fluids alone. What we then do is fluids subcutaneosly, as that is much easier to handle if she's not in a hospital. However, if you don't think she's getting better, there's no reason to prolong this uncomfortable situation for her by giving fluids. If you choose to do it, also choose a maximum amount of days to do it for (usually 2-3). If it didn't help her well-being, it won't after that time either. 

All this is not to say there is a better choice in here. It is hard to see a loved one go through this. Regardless of what you choose to do, or how it turns out to be, it is obvious that you want the best for her. She will be able to feel that, even if she can't express it verbally at the moment.

All in all, it's a hard situation to be in. If you want to talk more in detail about it, send me a PM.
Really think you need to get Hospice in there. My mom had vascular dementia and moved into severe stage mid-April and ended up in wheelchair. Memory Care recommended Hospice and doctors did referral and  consent papers were signed April 28. My mom started having eating issues and just passed away last Wednesday.
Thank you and everyone for replying. I myself am a doctor but I do not know much about geriatric /palliative care. We luckily have a nurse helping us care for her and after 2 days of refusing food and drinks, the nurse got her to eat some pudding and drink a little bit of water.

We had psychiatric evaluation, she got diazepam injection which made her stop being aggressive and with the nurse's help she finally ate.

Based on my and other doctor's evaluation she doesn't have a UTI but most likely suffered another minor stroke which is why she declined again.
This makes total sense, and I am so glad you have someone there with you. Sending you comforting wishes in these difficult moments, and hoping she is not in too much distress.
Thank you so much. She stopped talking almost completely but I can see joy in her eyes when she sees me and that's enough for me to know she's doing as good as possible.
