Unfortunately, you have to do what's best for her safety. She isn't going to like it, but it's miles better than finding her in an unsafe situation where no one was around to stop her. Since her doctor already knows the struggle you're having just to get her dressed, he might be able to offer suggestions for her transition.
It will be better fit everyone to get her into a facility. A place where trained professionals can encourage hygiene. There is a social life and structure and security. Also, it's better to be established in a new place already before the memory is gone. It is much more traumatic for your loved one to move them after. Best of luck.
Hygiene isn't optional. She needs assisted living/memory care and a better team of doctors. If she's not getting this level of care right now and you are powerless to help, call Adult Protective Services or the equivalent in your country.

This is not ok. I think you needed validation from someone outside the situation, and here it is.

Good luck and godspeed.
I'm sorry your dealing with this. Your poor mom. Would she bathe and change is she had an appointment? That's the only way I can get my mom the bathe. Also I dye her hair so that's another way I get her to bathe. Maybe seek another doctors advice? Maybe there are better qualified help to come in during the week? Thinking of you.
The stigma around meds is so unfortunate and contributes so much suffering to those in need. 

From my experience, the meds made a tremendous difference - improving the memory just so that she can do basic things like turning on the TV, putting on the hearing aids; completely stopping the delusions, paranoia and aggression; making her willing to accept help with hygiene vs seeing everyone as a bad actor; and making her able to hold a level of conversation. The situation went from tragic / police involved all the time to completely manageable.

I would say her first step should be getting the appropriate regimen of meds - it could turn everything around if she takes well to it and not too too far along.
My Mother did not recognize the home she lived in for 65 years. She kept wanting to go home of her childhood. She even stole my car to get there. Dementia sucks.
Keeping her at home sounds like no benefit what so ever.  I placed my dad into a memory care last week. We were going  to see a new doctor” and they kept him. It was rough in me but now his meds are better, he is actually playing bingo and visiting with others. Some days he is mad when he talks to me but I know his quality of life is better now and he is safe. The more they can do for themselves the easier it is when they move to a home. You must have two letters from doctors saying that she can’t take care of herself and needs assistance.  It sounds like she is suffering so much and needs more help than she can get at home. It’s a hard decision but she no longer recognizes right and wrong. Her comfort bubble with change when she is moved, it just takes a while.
Thank you all for your comments. Really appreciate it. I feel like I’m between a rock and a hard place. I also feel like an awful daughter fir not wanting to take care of her myself but I have my own life/family/career. I’ve worried about her and helped her since my dad died 20 years ago. I’ve pushed myself to work and save so that one day I could help her. But honestly I haven’t spent much of my savings on her. Many people say don’t do it... but her situation needs to improve one way or another. Just need to figure out what “improve” actually looks like.
Unfortunately, her doctor retired a few months ago and now the new MD has no geriatric experience (not much MD experience period) but I hear what you’re saying. Don’t think my sister is going to go along with it but she’s a mix of (privately) “wish she were dead” and (publicly) “don’t want her to be harmed by the aides”/“want her to be at peace.”/“don’t want her medicated”
When you say memory is gone, what do you mean? She already barely remembers me (not quite sure who she thinks I am). cant recognize anyone in pictures... some days are better than others
The doctor seemed to think home (for as long as possible) was the best option and that hygiene was essentially ‘optional’. He’d been a gerontologist fir like 50 years... the mental Illness also complicated things. She’s so happy picking (the neighbors) flowers and seeing all the flowers....
This is super underrated. We have the same excuses for my gram. Dying her hair and convincing her she got messy enough to shower rather than wash in the sink. Sounds like OPs situation might be different since she is much more resistant she could be too fearful and forcing her to face that fear without meds might be dangerous for herself and others.
How does one physically make someone take their meds? Crush it in their food?
[deleted]
Here is the narrative you push on meds: “this is so she is not scared and upset all the time, this is how she stays calm enough to participate in activities, meds allow her to accept people taking care of her so that she does not get sick and so we can preserve her dignity”
Then she is pretty far along and needs full time care
You said she still recognizes the house and has some better days. We were advised by my dad's doctor to move him while he could still form some memory so that his home was familiar to him when the last shred was gone. Being in a set routine helped him transition from knowing us and where he was to not knowing anything except where he is now. To wait means they can get disoriented when you move them. I hope that answers your question.
With dementia, the patient can not form new memories. So short term memory is basically non-existent. But it sounds like her condition is far enough along that her long-term memory is now seriously being affected. If mom's income isn't enough to afford long-term care, it may be time to fix up that house and sell it so that a facility can be afforded. If her doctor has already mentioned getting a psych team to help her, he may be able to transition her into a temporary facility. That facility should have a social worker who can help your get mom in a permanent facility.
Thanks. You’re spot on. Yes, the other complicating factor is that her parents are Holocaust survivors, so putting people in showers meant something different...
In my experience, it was long winded convincing until the meds kicked in. Once they did, she was much more receptive to take them and it became routine - take them before breakfast in the morning and before brushing teeth at night. 

A key thing is to not ask for permission which leads to resistance - just go with it as if this is what is happening and she is to just go along with it. Can misdirect or use any other tactics to move her mind away from the exercise at hand - for me saying "isn't it nice that I am here to help you with taking your meds", "isn't is great that the meds are helping so much!" works to lower resistance and create a positive and compliant frame.This can be applied to everything, not just meds - literally the only way to get her to shower.

If there is concern about spitting the meds out, you will need to make her talk for a few minutes or feed her after to see if she is retaining them in her mouth.

Otherwise blend with drinks or crush in the food.
So sorry to hear your situation. My sister (and maybe me) think a home would be a worse situation for my moms but I’m absolutely not willing to ruin my life/career to try to take care of her here.
Karma will be good for you. God bless you but take care of yourself as well
But how do they administer the meds and do they turn her into a vegetable like 24/7?
Thanks. Now it's finding a MD that can prescribe said meds.
