My Mom was diagnosed with MCI last September and with dementia shortly after. The hardest part is not knowing day to day what’s going to happen. She has moments of lucidity and things seem “normal”.  There are days that she cannot recognize her brain has a disease. Sometimes she admits she needs help, other times she absolutely refuses. Every day is different, there are no patterns, we cannot predict.  And it’s only going to get worse.
I suspect this will be hard to pin down. I’m new to this, so I only know what the hardest part is for me now. I’m sure in a year or two, I’ll have a different view on what the hardest part is. This will keep evolving as my husband’s dementia worsens. I’m sure it will also differ based on the type of dementia as well since different types of dementia start with different symptoms, abilities, and inabilities before converging to look basically the same later in the process.

For now, the hardest part for me is that I’m responsible for everything suddenly while also trying to keep my husband from taking responsibility for things that will cause problems that require more work/money/frustration. Add in the fact that this doesn’t even seem like my husband anymore, but more like he’s been taken over by a body-snatcher. I no longer have a husband/partner. I have a man living with me that I wouldn’t even date if I met him today.  Give me a couple of years and I will probably long for the days when this is my biggest challenge.
Hello.  My mom has dementia, and was diagnosed in 2014. 

This is a great question.  You know how sometimes, you see or hear a question,  and the answer is so obvious that you literally laugh out loud?  Regardless if you are eating alone in a restaurant?  Well.  That's me right now. 

Without a doubt, the responses to your question this far are all sincere, valid, and relatable.  It is difficult to share what is difficult for many people.  Thank you for asking the question,  and thank you to the responders to the question.  

My answer?  Easy...  I can sincerely say,  that the biggest challenge over the last 7 years has been....   ...me.

I have found this part of life is in some ways,  very much more difficult than attending university.   At first, I was angry with mom for the repetition.   Then,  later,  I was angry with myself for being angry in the first place. 

The problem?  I was not allowing mom to be human... and then I was not allowing myself to be human.   

This is simply one example of many.   I have absolutely had the hardest time in my head.   Forget about the natural progression of dementia as we know it.   I kept tripping over my own thoughts.  What I thought "right" how I thought everything should be progressing.   

So much time.   

I get in my own way so much.  Meanwhile,  I miss out on the ever fleeting "now" WITH mom.  I can say that I have lost money.   I can say that I have been frustrated.   Life had to kick me in the ass before I realized that the attention on myself was taking away precious time from my time with mom.   

There is so much to my journey and moms journey.  But,  if you,  or anyone you know has a loved one suffering from dementia, soak up the "now" as much as humanly possible.   Always realize it is ok to be human.   Completing a sentence requires little thought for those of us without dementia, while those who suffer from it may struggle to simply say "I love you. "  

Joining someone in their delusional state is so beneficial for them.   Money is,... well... money.   You can't replace time.  Now that mom is entering the stage of really really struggling to communicate,  I finally understand how precious time is and how important it is for me not to get in the way. 

The Alzheimers Hotline is also a precious resource.  Tell people about it.  Use it as a tool to better adapt and care for those who cannot care for themselves. 

I did not choose to have black hair and brown eyes.  Mom did not choose to have dementia.   Love them like a superhero!   Time is precious.
The agitation/aggression. I can deal with the physical needs, but not while my dad is also trying to attack me because he's convinced he heard me 'murdering thousands of people last night'. (???) The delusions, hallucinations, panic attacks, endless pacing in circles, the crazy fixations, the random acts of destruction, the tantrums...it's all so utterly, utterly exhausting, it makes it 1000% harder to see to their needs, and dealing with it (or trying to) just takes over your life.
Once your loved one gets to the point where all they do is eat, piss all over everything, get aggressive and angry during sundown and sleep they just become a weight on the family, the bank accounts, they destroy property and become just vegetables of society. I loved my grandma more than anything and as she’s in the late stages of dementia I can barely stay in a room with her more than 30 seconds before I’m disgusted. She also hits my mom and has attacked other family members at complete random even slapped the taste out of my mouth on more than one occasion out of nowhere. My grandma in her right mind would have gone to the end of the earth to protect her family and never swore or raised her voice ever. Now she spits, swats, kicks, and verbally abuses everyone she contacts without hesitation. The day I get the text or call that says she moved on to a better place I’m not gonna shed a single tear I’m gonna say thank fking god the madness is over now let’s rip these carpets up and burn the couch n guest bedroom contents and live like normal people again.
It's constantly feeling like you're not doing enough, and what you do isn't right, and they won't be happy or remember your effort anyway, and very few other people want to assist you because they have their own lives and concerns (as if you don't).
As someone who takes care of a mil with dementia and a mom with Parkinson’s. You have to find time to take care of yourself.  Find time to go out, go to a movie, shopping etc.  my mom with Parkinson’s is in a wheelchair so she can go places but my mil is 24/7 care.  My wife and I hardly ever get to go out by ourselves.   My mom rolls herself in my mil bedroom snd they watch tv together and that gives us a little free time.  
It’s a challenge but my wife snd I wouldn’t have it any other way.  My mil with dementia also has breast cancer too so we are dealing with that too.
You've received some amazing and spot on thoughts.  Much of the burden is the emotional pain that you just cannot describe.  Other needs are practical.  As one poster mentioned, money, financial support, or something to help with immediate needs: home improvement, care takers, adult diapers, safety products.  Someone else that would make a concrete difference would be more help.... Friends to just come visit for a bit, picking up groceries or making meals, Doing a load of laundry, cutting the grass.  Caregiving is more than a full-time job.  It's 24 hours a day, and most of that time cannot be spent doing regular household duties, nich less self care.  

Sadly, friends and even family drift away rather than be supportive for a dementia patient.  I guess people don't like knowing it could happen to them.
Money. We need money. A lot of my problems with caretaking were solved by hiring people to literally rebuild parts of my house to make it safe for an adult sized toddler. Being able to order food, hire a locksmith, hire house cleaners, pay for the attorney to finalize everything, fix the thing(s) that you can ignore but triggers them 20x a day because it's not \*perfect\*. My grandma needs someone to intervene EVERY time she stands up. It is a full time job that I am not being paid for. If I decide to walk away because I'm not paid enough, she won't last a week. I know that when she passes, I am getting her house. But it still hurts me because I have zero cash. Mentally it has led me to resent her on bad days, because yes I will eventually get a house, but in the mean time, I am suffering. All of her money goes towards repairing the 50+ year old house and it would really make a difference in my daily mental state if I got paid.
As a person living with dementia symptoms have gathered Links for symptoms and strategies here (with a few exceptions, most all Links are from me or other Persons Living with Dementia) >> https://truthfulkindness.com/about/d-info/links-sx-strategies/
Thank you for sharing your experience here.  Our family is starting to experience this. Our mom refuses to see a doctor for a diagnoses. I look up articles to help us communicate with her and minimize becoming frustrated as much as possible. Everything I can read is read. We really have no idea what to do or how to cover the growing need for help as time passes. Just so saddening and difficult.
Thank you for sharing your experience, it must be so hard to navigate and be ready for whatever the day may throw at you with your mom's dementia.

Is it usually that your mom wakes up and you know from the start of the day that she's having a bad one or a relatively better day? Are there ever any tell signs?

Do you have mechanisms that help you cope or things you do differently with your mom on the bad days?
How did they diagnose MCI? Did they do a MRI?
I'm feeling this. He's no longer my partner but someone that I care about and care for. It's like living with a child.
Thank you for writing what I have been thinking. I’m at the front end of this with my spouse. Even getting them tested has been exhausting because nothing is simple with them. I try to be respectful and allow them choices, but they either delay or create unnecessary burdens or financial bombs. (I’m using “they/them pronouns because it really doesn’t matter that I’m referring to a male or female. I’m trying to preserve a little anonymity for them.
Wow, thank you for this incredibly personal and deeply thought out response. You've clearly been through a lot with your mother's dementia. It can't be easy to take a step back and try to prioritise being present in the time you do have with your mother, especially with the heavy load that comes with the disease and caring for your mother. I wouldn't hold it against yourself at all, but I'm glad that you have been able to find this perspective through the hardship. I hope you feel you are able to appreciate the "now" with her more. 

What helps you keep that perspective and be present with her when you have all the other burdens on your mind?
I 100% agree, but I still struggle. It’s an emotional struggle to slowly lose the person I love, while learning the nuances of this disease and trying to support and help, not hinder. 

For me I’m on a new emotional learning curve and I can’t intellectualize my way through it. I have to feel new feelings and not resist them, no matter how “wrong” they feel. My entire being says, “run!” or “fix it!” or “stop their suffering!” But, even though I know it’s not mine to run from or fix, it still hurts. I want it to go away. I ain’t no spring chicken, but dang I’ve got a lot to learn. 

I love to learn, BUT I (WE!) DIDN’T SIGN UP FOR THIS!! (That felt better. This forum is a real blessing. Thank you, all.)
>The agitation/aggression. I can deal with the physical needs, but not while my dad is also trying to attack me because he's convinced he heard me 'murdering thousands of people last night'. (???) The delusions, hallucinations, panic attacks, endless pacing in circles, the crazy fixations, the random acts of destruction, the tantrums...it's all so utterly, utterly exhausting, it makes it 1000% harder to see to their needs, and dealing with it (or trying to) just takes over your life.

My heart goes out to you. It must be so hard to deal with a loved one who's behaviour has turned so aggressive.

What have you found helps your father calm down or is there anything that generally keeps him more at ease and less likely to get agitated? Has music ever helped?
>Once your loved one gets to the point where all they do is eat, piss all over everything, get aggressive and angry during sundown and sleep they just become a weight on the family, the bank accounts, they destroy property and become just vegetables of society. I loved my grandma more than anything and as she’s in the late stages of dementia I can barely stay in a room with her more than 30 seconds before I’m disgusted. She also hits my mom and has attacked other family members at complete random even slapped the taste out of my mouth on more than one occasion out of nowhere. My grandma in her right mind would have gone to the end of the earth to protect her family and never swore or raised her voice ever. Now she spits, swats, kicks, and verbally abuses everyone she contacts without hesitation. The day I get the text or call that says she moved on to a better place I’m not gonna shed a single tear I’m gonna say thank fking god the madness is over now let’s rip these carpets up and burn the couch n guest bedroom contents and live like normal people again.

I'm so sorry you feel this heavy burden on you and your family. It must be so tough to go through all of this. 

Has there been anything that helps your grandma stay calmer and keep her aggression at bay? Has music ever helped?
>What is the biggest challenge when having a family member with Dementia?

Sounds like such a hard position to be in the middle of. 

Where have you turned to for support or advice that has been most helpful for you before?  Especially about what the "right" thing to do is - how do you try to come to that decision?
>As someone who takes care of a mil with dementia and a mom with Parkinson’s. You have to find time to take care of yourself.  Find time to go out, go to a movie, shopping etc.  my mom with Parkinson’s is in a wheelchair so she can go places but my mil is 24/7 care.  My wife and I hardly ever get to go out by ourselves.   My mom rolls herself in my mil bedroom snd they watch tv together and that gives us a little free time.  
>  
>It’s a challenge but my wife snd I wouldn’t have it any other way.  My mil with dementia also has breast cancer too so we are dealing with that too.

Looking after two sick parents must be so hard. I'm glad you and your wife are able to be there for each other. Thank you for sharing. 

How have you found a way to take time for yourself and leave the house? What has been the best way to get around that?
Thank you for this! It's clear that the emotional part is a huge burden. So getting more hands on help is what you want most - is that also because you feel that it would help reduce your emotionally stress too? 

I can imagine that getting the practical stuff done is always a priority to ensure your loved one is taken care of. Do you get a chance to think about and address the emotional pain management part much?
I hear you. Years ago, one of my mom’s friends divorced her husband who had some type of brain cancer. She did this so he would qualify for more aid and I think so she could be “hired” as his caretaker. She kept living with him, but on paper they were divorced and she was his paid caretaker. I may have some of the details wrong, but this is how I remember it. I do recall being so judgmental of this when it was going on. How dare she? That was terrible of her to divorce him so they could milk the US government out of money! Well, I get it now. Family who take care of loved ones should be compensated by the government/insurance just as a stranger would be. I was young and ignorant then. She was doing what she had to do to make sure her husband got the care he needed and so that she would have enough funds left to care for herself as an elderly widow. And yes, I do consider her a widow even if they got divorced.
Thank you for sharing this. It's clear that the financial burden is so large for this disease and it makes an already tough situation worse. 

Have you found ways to help manage this or get extra aid, pay or funding at all?
It was suggested to me to lower my expectations, and to be direct. My spouse is on the verge of being unable to process hints, (non-hurtful) jokes, mild sarcasm (e.g., “So how’s that working out for you?”). I am required to scrap what I know and learn new strategies. This is helping with the frustrations, but still, I am grieving every step of the way.
The neurologist diagnosed MCI after an MRI showed brain shrinkage. There was no previous MRI for comparison. A few months later, her PCP diagnosed dementia when she failed a comprehensive driving test and could no longer safely drive.
Thank you for validating this for me. It felt horrible typing it, but it’s true.
I’m so sorry. The bombs are everywhere, aren’t they. My husband gets upset because he feels everything he does is wrong. I get upset because every thing I do for him seems wrong as well. He can’t win and neither can I. It’s very defeating.
I think like I wrote, life kicked my rear and that's what it took to be where I am today.   Fortunately, I still have time with mom and I will absolutely take time to just hang out. 

She currently lives in a facility only 10 minutes from where I live and is in the same road as my office.  So conveniently, I can see her on the way home from work. 

I think this past year has had an impact on the equation also.   Living and working so so close to the facility and not being able to see her brought me an appreciation for the small moments today.

I think what helps keep perspective is that I am naturally silly.   These days mom is talking less, and miming/gesturing more.   She can be silly too.  For example, when we are driving around,  she holds up her fists pretending to turn the steering wheel.   Even though she is trying to mimic driving,  it looks like she is milking a cow.   So what do I do?  I take my hands off the wheel for a second and copy her!  And then we naturally burst out laughing.   

I think those moments,  and others like those would never have happened though if it wasn't for one simple thing a counselor on the Alzheimers Hotline said to me.   She said,  even though it doesn't make sense to me,.... join mom in her delusions.  So... when she accused me of wronging her... I had to learn a new brand of logic.   

Initially, I would counter her incorrect statements, and try and logic her into agreement.  I can tell you, this does NOT work. Ha ha ha.  And what is the definition of insanity?... doing the same thing over and over again, expecting a different result.   Ha ha ha.  Yup.  That's me!  So we had some tough moments for a few months there.  Once I heard and understood what it means to join someone in their delusional state,  things really did get much better!

Eventually, when mom accused me of something,  I would simply apologize and tell her I would not do it again.   Once she had that calm response, we could move on to another happier topic.  The fact that I had to be told to join her instead of counter her, makes me feel silly.   But it so so works. 

So, there are more fun examples like the driving example above.  It's just funny, going through all the struggles in my head..... probably in no way at all can compare to mom's struggles..... even from one tiny moment to the next. 

So, silliness, the unexpected separation over the last year,  and joining mom in her delusions/funness, all help keep perspective.   :)
Thank you for sharing your thoughts and struggle. "Emotional learning curve" is such a powerful way to put it
Unfortunately, not a lot helped. THC-free CBD did help, if we were able to get him to take it (either in pill or edible form) on a regular basis and before the agitation really built up steam, but he often was uncooperative about taking meds or eating, so we could never really be consistent about it. (And if he was already worked up then he definitely wouldn't take or eat anything.) About a month ago we had to put him in memory care, because it had reached the point where we were sleeping with our doors locked to keep him from coming in and attacking us at night.

He's fortunately much calmer in the facility. I don't know if it was something about the house environment or our tension/stress contributing to his behavior or too much going on around him or too little or just the dynamic between him and my mom (which has never been super healthy), but overall the facility seems to agree with him more. He still gets defiant and kind of pissy but not violent to the same degree as he did at home.

e: To add that no, music has never helped. Actually if we tried to play music when he was upset it would upset him more - he didn't like the noise.
There's no help. You just research and wade through all the medical journals, message boards, news articles, etc. and do your best.
It’s difficult. We snap at each other and when we don’t feel good it makes it harder.  I have chf and COPD and my wife has severe pain in her neck due to two fusion surgeries that failed. So we are disabled too taking care of two disabled people. 
All I ask is prayers for strength and patience.
This is heart-breaking to hear that an elderly couple felt they had to get divorced in order to manage the financial burden of the disease. It feels so wrong that this was the option they had to turn to. Thank you for sharing this - it really put it into perspective for me
A close friend with ALS had to “divorce” his wife, too. It was a financial divorce to protect their assets, which otherwise would have been quickly depleted. They each still adored each other.
I can't legally write out what I've had to do to keep my 86 year old grandma alive in 115 degree weather in a broken house without air conditioning. There was no financial help for me until 500,000 Americans died to covid and we both got stimulus checks. The unemployment was helpful but you can only collect 52 weeks worth and I've already collected the limit. She could be in this semi-vegetable toddler state for many years, if I'm always right her next to her to keep her from falling. I don't know how to get anything else, because in my country they want us to send our elderly to facilities so the companies get their retirement checks. The retirement facilities lobby my government to block financial assistance in order to pressure families into dumping them at their expensive warehouses. If I send her to a home, it's against her wishes. She worked her whole life to earn her house and retirement, and she will lose both if I send her away.
{{{{{{{{hugs}}}}}}
(((((Hugs))))
Thank you both for sharing your honest feelings with me - I can only imagine how hard this is

What have you found to be your best coping mechanism to deal with the feeling that you are loosing your loved one to the disease?
Really really incredible. So much to take away from what you said on how to keep the connection and enjoy time with your mom. I’m glad you’ve found being silly and meeting her in her delusions works for you :). The driving mimicking story is great :)
This sounds like such a journey. Thank you so much for taking the time to write this out and share your experience. I’m glad your dad is getting on better at the facility
My spouse (early stages) seems to do better when there’s less to process or simply to use less cognitive faculties. May the memory care facility allows him to think less, and at the same time get mentally frustrated or tired less. Just a thought. I am definitely not an expert at this.
Sorry to hear this - I'm starting to see how neglected this condition really is
You really are dealing with a lot. My hat goes off to you. Sending you my well wishes and prayers
So tough to read - I’m sorry that the government funding and service feels like it is stacked against you. It must be very difficult to navigate
Coping mechanism? I don’t have one. How do you cope with such a thing? I can try to focus on other things, but how does one cope with the actual process of slowly losing their love?
You may be on to something. I think it's about reaching a happy medium where there's not so much stimulation that they can't process and get overwhelmed,  but enough going on so they don't ruminate/internalize/invent crazy stories.
I can't think how hard this must be. Perhaps talking to others going through the same could be one way to cope, but I know I have no right to presume what could help you
