This makes me so sad. I'm sorry you're in this situation. My grandfather has dementia, it was not early onset, but he was the most active person I've ever known and now he has stopped everything. First of all, keep him active, keep him outside, keep him walking! My grandfather sits in one place almost 24 hours a day, and because he does he has lost muscle strength and balance which makes everything that much harder, I also think this has lead to more depression. Maybe someone could go for a walk with him once a day or something so he doesn't get in to places he shouldn't be.

Guitar is great! Does he have any other interests? My grandfather loved history before all of this so we buy him books about history, he can get more use out of ones with mostly photos, than ones he used to read. My pap is also a very sentimental guy so he watches a ton of chick flicks, and he likes them. Maybe there are shows your dad used to watch that you can get on DVD?

You could get some bird feeders, if they don't have any, and a bird book so his staring out the window could turn in to a bird watching hobby. 

Your father obviously loves music, music has shown to be a good thing for people with Dementia. Are there any CD's that he doesn't own that he would enjoy?

Another thing that keeps my grandfather busy are word search books. He would do them all day long. Or jigsaw puzzles occasionally.

Lastly, one thing that is important in all of this that I wish my family would have done more of is take care of your mom. It's horrible for anyone to watch someone they love go through this, but if she is living with him she is watching this 24 hours a day. It's a big stress. Make sure that she is taken care of too. 

Good luck with everything.
My mother has FTD and my dad keeps a [blog](http://copingwithfrontotemporaldementia.com/) about her condition. It helps to know that you are not the only one going through this. FTD is horrible and what it does to someone is also horrible. We didn't know what was wrong with her and she was finally diagnosed with FTD summer of 2010. She recently turned 57, but she has had symptoms over the last 10 years.

My dad took my mom's license away from her a couple of years ago because she was getting in accidents and actually hit a pedestrian (don't worry, it was a light tap at a gas station so she didn't run someone over). My mom mostly sits in front of the TV watching movies all day and writes the same three words in a spiral notebook over and over (Lord Jesus Christ, she was and still is religious). She seems content but I understand feeling like you wish there was more to do.

I would suggest you read my dad's blog.. it might help. FTD can be drastically different from one person to the next but the blog might give you an idea on what it to come.

I am very sorry for your father's recent diagnosis, I know I was devastated to hear about my mom and I am sure you feel the same toward your dad. Sometimes I am very sad because of what is happening and sometimes I am angry.  You have my empathy, if you ever need to talk to someone who is going through a similar situation you can always PM me.
llamas idea of the bird feeder is good, add a bird bath too. My GFs mother had frontal lobe also, i think she was around 60 when she got it. I didnt know her until late 70s. She enjoyed walking a lot until the end. 
Music and aroma therapy with essential oils.  Smells and music help with keeping those pathways active. 
You have my sympathy - and my best advice is to ENJOY your time with him. In hindsight, he probably has been exhibiting symptoms for a few years. The diagnosis helps explain a lot - and now you can prepare for the future. With patience, humour, patience, and frequent adjustments to your expectations of his functionality. Here's a blog you should follow: http://ftdlaughnowcrylater.blogspot.com/
My Uncle was diagnosed at age 62. His primary caretaker was his mother (my grandma) and they lived far away so we all had a hard time helping them efficiently.

What happened: as his condition worsened, his gait got strange and ultimately, his body deteriorated where he ended up in a long-term care unit of a hospital.

While he was still at home, we had a physical therapist come and help him work on his balance, gait, muscle soreness, etc. It obviously did him a lot of good.

At the hospital, this all ended and he only got worse. He also ate really shitty food and my stubborn grandma had no better idea but to feed him the cookies he used to like when he was well (they have always had a good diet, with their dessert once in a while).

End of story: besides keeping your Dad busy part of the day (a good half-hour of focused activity is good enough), make sure you keep his body in shape. That includes some form of exercise and very healthy food. Take advantage of walks with him to pinpoint things in the neighborhood, encouraging conversations with neighbors, etc.

My Mom has just been diagnosed with early Alzheimer. From searching around, I have come across the idea that vitamin E and B12 deficiencies might lead to early onset of dementia (my Mom has always eaten pretty poorly). I don't see anything wrong with making sure the food is healthy and proper supplementation is provided (don't overdose).

I wish you good luck. It is heart-wrenching to see a close one go this way. This said, I did provide my uncle with laughs and a good time when I visited him, and when he was doing poorly in the hospital, I told him a few things about his role in my childhood and he was happy and had a tear in his eyes, when I would have believed he was not going to relate to what I was telling him.

Last of last: once, I managed to take him out for a walk around the hospital grounds. The nurses were amazed because they could hardly get him to leave his bed and get to the armchair. So you have a role to play in terms of providing him with a few moments of true happiness. But don't forget to take care of yourself, these kinds of illnesses take their toll on the caretakers.

Edit: Also, you might want to consider this: http://thehealthyadvocate.com/2011/09/16/coconut-oil-and-alzheimers/
My mom was diagnosed with FTD a few years ago, though now it's looking more like early-onset Alzheimer's. Regardless though, she's 54 now, so I understand how you feel. I moved back home two years ago to help take care of her.

She does a lot of puzzles, when she remembers about them, though I think even those are starting to become too complicated for her. Mostly, she colors. We've gotten her a lot of coloring books (stuff like [this](http://www.amazon.com/Mandalas-Stained-Glass-Coloring-Design/dp/0486441350/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1339112570&sr=8-2)), and plenty of colored pencils. For mother's day I bought her [this art set](http://kids.woot.com/offers/art-101-177pc-wooden-case-art-set), though she often forgets about that too. I don't know if your dad is artistic, but my mom wasn't very artsy before either. Now she'll sit and color for hours. 

TV also seems to hold her interest, though I doubt she follows the story lines much anymore. I also don't love watching her just veg out in front of the TV, but when nothing else works...

Other than that, I'm at as much of a loss as you are.
