You have to maintain your life as well. I moved back in to care for my mother and was gone in four months: the worst four months of my life. I still have ptsd when certain things happen.
My mom also attacked staff. She is on a few drugs and is managed at a facility. I could not have done any of those things.
Go back to Indiana and look into facilities that could take her in. Don’t destroy your life; soon enough the disease will try to do that for you. My mom’s lucid moments were fleeting and then it was back to threats and accusations.
I'm sorry.  This is so tough.  Are there any other family members you can ask for help?
This is very difficult, but it's possible to do this remotely. Has your mom been assigned a caseworker/social worker? The facility she's staying in should have assigned one to her on day one. If she hasn't been assigned a caseworker yet, ask them what they're process is for getting one, or reach out to the Aging and Disability agency in your mom's state.

The social worker can work with the facility to get mom assessed by a physician, as well as a psychologist. For the immediate concerns, this should be enough to get the ball rolling in getting her into a memory care facility.
I appreciate the insight and the opportunity to hear some of your story. She is in a memory care facility in Florida right now, they just said if she kept being aggressive they’d have to call 911, so I don’t know what would happen or how to coordinate that from long distance, though I’m sure they’d help me and wouldn’t just let her sit in jail or anything.
Unfortunately no. My father passed in January of 2020 and I’m her only son. All grandparents passed before I was even born (I’m 22 for reference). The behavioral hospital said after two Baker Acts she had a brief psychotic disorder, but I just can’t see it being that simple
I promise you that if they call 911 she won’t be taken to jail, they’ll take her to a psych hospital which (depending on the psych hospital) is usually better and she can be readmitted to the facility. Most people with dementia tend to be extremely aggressive when they first move in to a facility especially if they want to stay in their own homes. Usually they calm down within a month or two. Calling her often will help. You may have to lie to her and tell her that it’s only temporary, and if that if she’s cooperative with staff she can come home sooner. Ask the staff to go along with your narrative and also ask them if there’s anything you can say or do that would help. Worst case scenario she’ll have to be in a skilled nursing or psychiatric facility. 

I’ve worked in a skilled facility before and I currently work in a memory care assisted living facility now, feel free to ask anything and I’ll try my best to help.
Has she been diagnosed with dementia prior to this?  

Is there any possibility of moving her to a facility near you so you can attend to her and your internship?
Thank you for replying! No she has yet to be diagnosed with dementia up to this point. I hadn’t even considered a facility until the police told me she needed to go or she’d have to go to jail for continual disturbances. There’s been a gradual buildup to her condition now over the last 10 months, but the Baker Act let me take control long enough for me to get her to safety. A behavioral specialist was sent to see her today so I’m hoping for a better diagnosis than “brief disorder”. As for moving her closer, it would be a 13 hour drive from Florida to there, so I don’t know how I could get her moved that far.
I'd also advise a consultation with a neurologist.  That's the reason I advise moving her; she's likely going to need to see a flurry of specialists to figure out what's going on.
Most likely. I just have to find a way to get her from Florida to Indiana in that case
Interesting development, the police had to be called since she wouldn’t go inside, so I’m not sure how they’ll proceed from there
I'm sorry.  What a nightmare.  We have no good way to deal with people in situations like this.  It's heartbreaking when people with dementia and mental illness end up in the hands of the police because we have no trained professionals set up to help them.
I agree, I only hope they convinced her to go inside. They responded to the living facility so they know somethings up at least
