What dosage has he been prescribed? This medication is often used for people with more advanced dementia or those for whom a cholinesterase inhibitor, such as donepezil, isn’t suitable. Everyone is different but it can be quite good for improving mood and reducing some of the symptoms of dementia.
My mom was on it. I don't know that it made any difference, but then again, I couldn't know what she'd have been like without it.
It helped during the early to mid stages of my dad's dementia (Lewy Body). If he accidentally skipped a day, there was a noticeable difference in cognition. He's now in a pretty late stage, though, and it's been less and less useful. He actually accidentally went off it for a week while in memory care (a communication snafu between doctors - don't get me started) and we only caught it by reviewing his meds. His behavior hadn't changed. That makes me think that memantine and all of those cognition-enhancing meds are great for earlier stages but eventually get overwhelmed by the sheer magnitude of brain rot.
I've been on that for a few months. My housemate says she can tell but personally I'm still unsure, but the GI side effects went away in a couple weeks.

Aticept 10mg & Namenda 10mg x 2 daily (20mg daily)
Edit: spelling
My Medications for Dementia issues at [https://truthfulkindness.com/about/life-other/med/medications-4sx/](https://truthfulkindness.com/about/life-other/med/medications-4sx/).  ooops i think memantine is one we tried and discarded.  i was thinking this was something else.
My father has been taking it for over 5 years, 20mg. I guess it helps stabilize his mood, but he still doesn't sleep through the night, he has a difficult time walking and sitting on chairs or toilet, or lying down, unless we guide him by holding him...he doesn't remember how to get in or out of the passenger side of the car, he pees in random spots of the house, he doesn't recognize himself in the mirror, he has bowel movements more than 4 times a day, he can't bathe or wipe himself, his mood is stable he's not aggressive, but he is restless...I'm not sure how he would be without his meds, I wish he didn't have this disease, it feels like he was always this way...
I'm honestly not sure yet, we aren't even home from the doctor. Doing blood work now. Been here 3.5 hours total! Egads.
Hey, got his actual prescription info. He was prescribed 5mg daily, ramping up to 20mg daily over 4 weeks.
This hit home. 
I am sorry..
Great. That’s the usual prescription. Keep an eye over the next few weeks for any side-effects like dizziness or GI upset. Do you have a nurse monitoring response?
We do not unfortunately. But he's pretty vocal about those things. Lol.
