Might be time for a memory care facility. This is different from Assisted Living as she would be in a locked facility with 24/7 care with staff who are trained to work with residents with dementia. Her current facility might even have a memory care unit. Maybe ask them for suggestions?
My mother spent a month in hospital on a psych hold while they sorted out the dosage for her risperdone. She was attacking people and severely paranoid before being medicated.

Is the facility "assisted living" or "memory care"? It sounds like she needs the higher step up, hands on approach of a memory care facility. The one my mother is in manages all her needs and I only hear about the occasional escape attempt. Super slo-mo escape.

If she is already in memory care, they really should be redirecting her and dealing better with the medications. The doctors/staff should be recognizing the issues and sorting it out. Taking her home would be a huge step backwards. She is a danger to herself at this point, either by not taking meds and spiraling physically/mentally or by forgetting the stove is on and blowing up the neighborhood.

Re: asking to go home - many times these expressions aren't really about "home" but about other things. I always told my mother "I'll look into it" about anything she requested and that seemed to do the trick.  
https://www.fivestarseniorliving.com/blog-post/what-it-means-when-a-person-with-dementia-says-i-want-to-go-home
My mom (84, Lewy Body Dementia, almost mid-stage) is in assisted-living facility and went through a good four month phase of wanting to move home, was miserable and sad, etc. Granted it was as the pandemic hit so very understandable that she was having a tough time adjusting since no activities were going on. 


I just told her, “If you can arrange the move and pack everything up according to what the movers require then I will support your move home. But I won’t be the one helping pack and unpack, it will be 100% on you.” She said, “I know he would use Movers X (a really good local moving company).”

I said, “That is a start. How do you plan on getting boxes and getting everything packed?” She said, “I guess I’m probably in the place I need to be.” She pretty much dropped the subject after that. If your mom is further along in her dementia then putting the responsibility of a move completely in her court may not work in helping her understand, but it might be worth a try.
i put my ideas for MY future here >>   
Asking to go Home by Truthful  
Kindness at https://truthfulkindness.com/2021/03/07/to-go-home/  ;
