I have been struggling with this with my dad as he was a wonderful, intelligent, and empathetic man who now struggles with even the smallest daily tasks, like sitting in a chair. He has early onset dementia with Lewy bodies and he's 69 now. We've know what's going on with him for probably 6 years or so. I'm 29f.

My mom cares about him deeply, but I can tell she basically views him as a toddler--and it's kind of hard not to. She cared for him at home until his hallucinations and anxiety attacks got to be too much and he's now in a facility. I don't live in the same state but I visited recently and every time it was time to go see him, I found that I really didn't want to, which I felt terrible about. 

It doesn't feel like he's my dad anymore. I see rare flashes, but it's mostly upsetting conversations about things that aren't real, him trying to find the words he's looking for, vague complaints, or thinking my mom wants to leave him. He still knows who I am but seems to have renamed me. 

I try not to feel guilty about how detached I have been feeling. I'm angry that the dementia has robbed him of everything that made his life good. I am so grateful to my mom for sticking it out, but I know how incredibly hard it was for her for so long (and now there are new challenges, even though he's not at home). For me, the most difficult thing is knowing that I'll never have another conversation with my dad again and I couldn't tell you when I stopped feeling like I knew him. 

Not very comforting, I know. But it's just such a cruel disease for all involved.
This sounds very familiar. 
My marriage was not good and I was seriously considering leaving the relationship, but held off because I wasn’t confident she could safely care for our young kids (assuming they’d be with her half time if we divorced). Fast forward to early onset dementia diagnosis when she was 47 and me staying with her to care for her and raise our kids despite having reached the point I wanted out of the relationship. Now 6 years from that diagnosis and she has been fully dependent for a few years. Kids are 10 and 13 watching all of this unfold while I watch the months and years tick by, isolated, stressed, and lonely. So I feel for you very much and am sorry for what you are going through. I can relate all too much.
I wouldn’t beat yourself up. My (65m) wife, (66f) was diagnosed with ftd three years ago after a decade of trying to get people to believe it.

You learn to separate your feelings from the reality. That person is gone and to put it bluntly you need to learn to live your life. That may mean divorcing him or putting him in a home but it gets progressively worse.

I’m sorry. It is awful and it will get worse. You need to take care of yourself. A therapist is highly suggested to help you get over any guilt you may feel. Also checkout the dementia subreddit.

Good luck and PM me if you want to chat. Your life needn’t be over.
Aw, sweetie. I hear you. My (50) husband (54) was diagnosed with FTD a year ago. I had tried to get a diagnosis of something two years before because I knew something was up.  I also have no romantic feelings. To do so would feel like cheating on my husband since this person does not feel like my husband anymore. I’m glad that it sounds like the kids are trying to put their hurt aside now that they know the cause of his past behavior. We are in the process of moving to another state because our daughter wants to be with her dad more before things get too difficult.  Feel free to message me. It sounds like you and I will be on a very similar path over the coming years. Big hug to you. I’m so sorry.
My wife was diagnosed with bvFTD at age 53, now 7 years ago.  We have been married since 1983.  Almost the same story as yours, I moved out and was preparing for divorce when the diagnosis was made.  I moved back home to take care of her and have been since.  She now needs 24/7  care.  I have watched her age backwards in terms of behavior and functioning:  adult to young adult to teenager to adolescence to young child to the present of a toddler.  Fortunately she has been sweet not mean and I have been able to get help with her to keep her at home.  It’s really hard on everyone.  I noticed how most of her family and friends, with a few notable exceptions, have abandoned her.  I guess they are too uncomfortable around her in her different state of being.  After a few years I slowly shifted from looking at her as my wife but rather a new individual who needs love and care as a child would.  I learned that it’s not possible for me to get her to be in my world so I have decided to join her in her world as often as I can, doing those things that bring her joy.  

I just rely on eastern thought to try to stay in the moment and not think about what has been lost or will be.  It still is so hard to live in a suspended state where I can’t plan for the future as it relates to my emotions, employment, retirement and relationships.  People tell me “Oh, you’re so good to stay with her.”  like any of us have a choice.  Of course we will take care of our loved one to our best ability and emotional, financial and physical limits.  It’s hard as you can imagine but we have experienced what it means to truly love with no expectations or conditions attached to it.  I hope this experience will teach me to be a better more complete person as a result of taking this journey with my wife.

Good luck to you, and to everyone who has to care for someone with this disease.
I’m 53...forgot to mention that
Thank you for sharing. I am 25f going through a very similar situation with my dad, and this post made me feel less alone so thank you!
My daughter struggles as well with similar feelings.  The day we found out her dad has FTD she cried so hard and through her tears, she said “ I lost my dad, and now he is back just to lose him again”. And I completely understood what she was feeling and meant.  It is truly a cruel disease that puts everyone in a full on struggle.
My daughter struggles as well with similar feelings.  The day we found out her dad has FTD she cried so hard and through her tears, she said “ I lost my dad, and now he is back just to lose him again”. And I completely understand what she meant:
Maybe this is all to common with families due to the delayed diagnosis.  I am glad my kids are older now, but all his anger and lack of caring took a toll and wrote on the slate of who they are.  I  completely identify with the feeling of watching the time tick by.
I have a great therapist that also sees the kids and my husband.  I think it would be harder if I did have romantic feelings.  And I’m soooo thankful I have great friends.  It is a challenge for sure.
Sad to hear you are experiencing this. Facebook has care giver support groups for dementia. Many say “Alzheimers” but most are inclusive. Some have support meetings specifically for caregivers. Maybe you might find more support through that?
That is EXACTLY why I posted.  I have a therapist, a support group, wonderful friends, some really great coworkers, a great attorney, and all our health care providers are excellent.... and sometimes I still feel alone and trapped and all those things.  Some days i have to tell myself to keep moving forward and try to stay positive “and show them what I’m made of “.   I think the post earlier was so true.... and that is to lean on anyone you can.  I was posting in hopes that others also felt like I do.  Knowing it is pretty normal and that I’m not alone helps me tremendously, and you aren’t alone either!
I think what's helped me the most is thinking about the person he was. Even though it's hard to find him anymore, dementia can't take away what an awesome dad he was when I was a child. I'm glad my story can help you feel less alone--it's a very isolating experience and I have had some guilt about talking to friends about it because it's just so heavy and no one can make it better.
‘...wrote on the slate of who they are.’ What an apt way to put it. I think about that every day. 

Here’s to other, better chapters to come.
Lean on everyone you can!
I’m in an FYI caregiver group.  I think as time passes and I gain more tools things won’t feel so bad.  I’ve been doing a lot for myself to help with the stress but it is still weird feeling like a caregiver to someone I don’t have feelings for anymore.
Molly's Movement was what got me through the initial days of wondering what the heck I needed to be doing, back when Molly was still alive and going to Wendy's with her son for a frosty. You just have to remember with groups like that, take what you can use from them and ignore the ones who are critical. There are several very outspoken Karen types in the group, or were.
FTD not FYI..
