There are medications that can possible slow down the progression or help with symptoms. Therapy that patients can go to that may help. But as far I know it's all just comfort care. There was just recently a drug approved by the FDA that allegedly gets rid of plaque in the brain but it is VERY CONTROVERSIAL. I mean very, very. Like their clinical trials barely showed evidence of it working and was denied the first time but now they somehow approved it despite the fact it causes serious brain swelling. 

On the other hand I am so sorry you have to deal with this fear as well. I am just a year older than you not far from NYC and I'm going through the same thing with my mom. Of course different situations and all. But her symptoms and what she does has caused huge tension in the relationship between her and me as well as somewhat between her and my brother. It is scary to watch and so painful to go through. 

The best bet is to try and see if he will see a neurologist or neuropsychologist

EDIT: I would like to add severe depression or depressive episodes can cause memory issues that can really seem like dementia.
I’m so sorry that his actions are tormenting you.  He could be depressed, distracted, or possibly declining in mental ability. Take him to get a physical and take him to a physiatrist. You lost your mother. He lost his wife....

Edit:  talk to his current wife! She should get him to the doctor!  More people are out and about now that the plague is getting under control.  If all these behaviors happened recently it is probably do to something other then dementia
Sorry to hear that, very sad!   Idk but, he needs to see a doctor and have some tests with specialists I suppose.   You ought to check out Dementia .orgs and Alzheimers . orgs for your area.  They are professional experienced in every aspect for the memory lossed & their family / friends / carers.  They have tons of info on-line, plus telephone help-lines, in-person appointments for advice consultations - they'll be able to help you find ways & processes of navigating this.   Best of luck!
My dad has dementia- he's 60, and late stages. He was always so stubborn so he wouldn't let us help him, but I've read articles that support the findings that an active lifestyle, mentally and physically, can help improve the lifespan of patients with familial frontotemporal dementia- frontotemporal is a rarer form of dementia (and worth noting, not always familial) but it's also more commonly seen in younger patients. Article on the findings here: [https://www.ucsf.edu/news/2020/01/416391/lifestyle-choices-could-slow-familial-frontotemporal-dementia](https://www.ucsf.edu/news/2020/01/416391/lifestyle-choices-could-slow-familial-frontotemporal-dementia)

I'd say go about getting him diagnosed ASAP, if a doctor says it's depression insist on further tests as some earlier forms of dementia are frequently misdiagnosed (my dad was misdiagnosed at first, and it's common especially for anyone with FTD). The sooner you know the better because you can spend time with your dad as your dad, while he's still fully there. We never really got that chance, unfortunately.
