[deleted]
   The best thing I can start with is when you cant change the circumstances then you must change yourself. Thats what you have realised. Its easy to become totally consumed by the situation and overtaken by it, thus the constant fear and anxiety. But think about that for a moment. What purpose does that serve? None. Its being overcome. Its being taken. Consider, you dont have to allow that. Do some reading on Stoicism. the tactic is to step back, become stone. Nothing can touch your heart unless you let it. Always keep Mom in your heart and give only love. But the fear and anxiety, refuse it. Look at it and understand it. Its a normal feeling. But its running out of control. You will need to discipline and say enough. You know whats coming, you know you can and will handle it. So focus on giving Mom love and not letting that fear and anxiety intrude in your life. 

In Zen the thought is right action at the right time. Live when it is right to live, grieve when it is right to grieve. It isnt that time yet. Its the time to live. The future is a spectre and isnt real. By agonizing over it youre hooking it into your mind and emotion and play thru scenarios and imaginings. What purpose does that serve? None. 

1-be aware when the fear and anxiety begin

2-consciously gain the edge and control yourself. remind yourself over and over those thoughts are false, those feelings are false. Then affirm over and over with positive ones, distract with a new task, exercise etc. You have to retrain yourself.

Fear is a natural defense tool. But it runs amok. Anxiety over future events is started by fear and serves no purpose. 

If you dont now, start an exercise program. Stress and anxiety tend to cause nerve and musculature fatigue and tightness. Exercise helps reduce and releases good chems in the body.

take up meditation. Listen to chill music. Do some artwork. 

I live with and care for my Dad (94). he has issues. I know full well that he can go any day. he has dementia and alzh and is a narcissist. he comes up with some crazy stuff. Some of it is him gaslighting me and some he really believes. I try and stay grounded. After the news is over he crashes and I get some hours for me. Workout, artwork, music, writing. Reading. Its important to not be consumed and keep pushing your own life. 

What it comes down to is, can you take charge of your mind and spirit or just fall prey to fear and anxiety? Enjoy what you can now and day by day. Dont live in that future. These days are so precious. Time is so precious. Find the strength of purpose to rise above the fear and pain, rise above the situation. Shine, be a hero. Its in you. I promise. Find a way to tap into it. The key is no matter how many times you fall, get back up. Take a step. Do not let the claws of fear grab your spirit and mind. Dont grab onto them by thinking of them, let them go.

Hug your Mom for me.
Marijuana. 

I’m not joking. I got a medical card in my state and haven’t looked back. I smoke for sleep and to ease my anxiety. It also helps me stay patient with my loved one as he progresses through dementia. 

Now I work in the medical marijuana industry and help other caregivers and patients find what will work best for them. It’s been very rewarding in that sense and I’m taking that as the silver lining of everything my grandfather’s dementia journey has put me through.

Edited to Add: I also got back into horseback riding and bought a horse. My horse gives me an outlet for exercise and I get outside a lot for all that juicy vitamin D. I highly recommend taking up a sport!
I am so sorry you are going through this.  There are no easy answers, and what works for one may not work for another.  Here are some distinct things that help me cope. 

1) if you haven't, see your doctor about the anxiety and likely depression.  And sleep.  Take advantage of any and all mental health tools at your disposal.  Anxiety meds and help sleeping can cut the edge.

2) examine and change your expectations.  The people we love will not get better. There's hope for the future, but it is unlikely science will be able to reverse dementia any time soon.    That means, learn what is realistic for your loved one at any given time.  They will lose or hide things.  Lose their appetite, ask questions over and over.  They will eventually need help with everything.    So, give them room for their illness.  If they keep losing their teeth or hearing aids, put them up until they are needed.  Keep ensure or milkshake ingredients on hand.  Accept the fact that they will repeatedly ask questions or tell the same stories.  Learn to give simple answers and nod and say uh huh a lot.  Start building your supply of comfortable clothing easy to get off and on. Prepare mentally, physically, and emotionally for the decline.  
 
3) the better life is for your loved one, the better it is for you. Start speaking more slowly, look them in the eye.  Say fewer words with less explaining.  Have them to tell stories for as long as they are able.  Simplify simplify for your sake and theirs.  

4) accept help.  Ask for help.  If someone asks how they can help, have a list ready.  Someone else can go to the pharmacy, pick up groceries, or do a load of laundry.  Better yet, have them come sit with your LO and play dominoes, or tell stores, or simply take your place answering questions for an hour. 

5) learn what you can about the disease.  Understanding some things can help increase your patience.  Find a dementia support group.  Good ones are better then counseling because there are your brothers and sisters fighting with you.  They get it, whatever it is that's causing pain.  

6) start learning about care options now. Yesterday.  As soon as possible.  Will they qualify for financial support? Are they a veteran?  What does home help look like and what is the status of nursing homes? What do you need to do to plan for legal issues and being ready to manage finances and healthcare decisions.  The more you know and having a plan can reduce anxiety.  

7) do not promise that you won't put someone in a nursing home.  If you do promise to ease their mind, give yourself grace and recognize you may not be able to keep that promise. Someone might have to go into a nursing home or memory care unit because they may fall/behind ill, become aggressive, or behind a risk to themselves.  Our own health becomes more fragile as caregivers.  Accept that you will have limitations and start building your team for help and support.  If you are an introvert or don't have family or friends, that's ok.  But you will want as good doctor and lawyer, and use people or technology to ease your stress level.

8) finally, have a Dr that understands dementia and supports you in their care.  Some general practitioners have very little knowledge about dementia.  There's a good chance you will need their help.  Some docs can ease the transition for giving up keys or checkbook and take that burden off of yourself.  

I think for me and my family (my dad is 76 with combined type dementia, entering the moderate stage. My parents are still married, so she is with him and primary caregiver), acceptance and preparation have helped a little.  Caring for someone with dementia is a team sport. Let others help.
My support group has two sayings that I keep close. It works until it doesn’t. You can’t direct the wind, but you can change your sails. Just words, but sometimes it helps. Take care my friend
I cope by living my life. It's not a super full life but it contains an amazing husband who understands the struggle, a wonderful mum who deals with so much from dad and still loves him, my sister and her wife who are there with me every step of this journey, and as a family we are very close and work together to give my dad the best life we can. I also have a small but fab group of friends, and my employers and colleagues are very understanding.
Well, my answer is very blunt so if you don’t care for that, don’t scroll down.








Your parents were never making it out of this alive. None of our parents were. Some people have parents that don’t develop dementia, but such  is life.

I would have loved to have had a mother that loved me and cared for me, but I didn’t. I would have loved to have had a father that protected me from her, but I don’t. And I would now love to not have to care for that same father while feeling resentment towards him, because I am caring for him more than he did for me. But again, that is life.

We don’t get to choose some of these hands we are dealt, but you have to play them in one way or another.

I do wish you peace and hope that you can somehow come to terms with this shitty condition.
Anticipatory grief is very difficult to deal with, for both person living with dementia and loved ones (i know, been in both boats).

Many of the strategies to avoid despair are the same; focus on the moment, etc ... and celebrate the moments of success (or communication, etc)  >>   
https://truthfulkindness.com/2021/06/18/celebrate-success/
It wasn’t fair it happened to you. Well done coping as best you can. Peace.
20 years is a long road for a dementia journey. My best to you.
Thank you so much for your thoughtful and helpful response. I read it twice and have saved it to read again because you are so right, letting the anxiety run wild does nothing but run me down and I need to find the discipline to fight it. I must. You are also right in that I know what's coming, and I need to stop the constant worry, because you are also right in that when the time comes - when the hard steps come, I will do them. 

I am sorry about your dad. He is lucky to have you. I will hug my mom today for both of us and you hug your dad for me. Thank you.
Found this almost a year after and it gave me some comfort. Thank you kind internet stranger.
I second that.  
Shortly after recreational marijuana became legal in my state, a generous and understanding friend took some pity on my dementia caregiver lifestyle and began supplying me with weed on a semi-regular basis. I can't tell you how much it has helped me stay calm and patient with my mother. Marijuana use has never inhibited the care I give, either. The key is moderation. I never get so high that I feel as I'm melting into the floor.
Thank you, you have offered a lot of good and practical advice. One good thing my anxiety has done is driven me to plan, at least as much as I am able, so all the legal paperwork is in place. I have been in touch with the agency on aging in my area and have checked home health services. 

My mom has vascular dementia so it's really a mixed bag. Thankfully she can still do all her own hygiene, keeps her place clean, can make simple meals. She still organizes her bills but I have started to write her checks because she is losing the ability to write. It takes her a long time to do these things but she will get them done. I think it's because she's been a widow for 25 years and always did those things for herself, and kept a spotless home. This is proving to be helpful now, I think, because some of it is like auto-pilot and it still gives her a sense of independence. Outside the home is a different story. She gets really confused and feels off balance. She doesn't drive anymore (what a nightmare that was!) so socialization has been an issue. I'm hoping she will agree to hire some companion help (I call it a helper), she's been very reluctant but that's our next step. 

Thanks again, and I wish you and your family peace dealing with your dad.
Thank you.
I don't mind blunt. And full disclosure- I also have a complicated past with my mother. She is a life long narcissist and I actually have CPTSD from my childhood. How I came to then move her next to me when her health started to become an issue is something I've had to sort out in counseling. But it was me or nobody. I can't yet articulate my true feelings on this, or how I will even process it later. All I know is I broke the cycle of abuse with my son, and I am going to make sure my mom has the care she needs and someday that will be memory care. In some odd way I feel this will help me heal from past wounds.

Like you said- these are the cards we were dealt. If you ever want to talk my DMs are open.
[deleted]
   We are doing perhaps the toughest thing in Life and will recieve no awards or compensation. It is out of respect and honor that we do this, because its the right thing to do. Its a work in progress. not only because the loved one changes...but because we change. We learn more and we grow. We face new and sometimes very difficult challenges. But know through all of this that we can and we will do this. 

Life happens, but WE filter it thru our heart and mind and allow it to affect us. The tactic is to see and understand and act with compassion without letting the negative make its way in. easier to become hardened and callous. To be strong and have compassion and not turn away no matter how much it hurts. that is heroism, rise above our pain and fear to help another. You're doing good. A good heart with compassion. take good care.
How are you doing today?
I 100% disagree! You are still here, and you have the loving kindness and compassion to try and help someone else on a similar road. Give yourself the grace you would want someone else to give themselves. You are worth it.
[deleted]
I'm so sorry for what you have been through and I appreciate you taking the time to share your story. 20 years is a very long time to watch your parent suffer. My heart goes out to you. I definitely relate to the ying yang coping mechanisms. 

I'm glad your mom is in hospice. They are a true comfort during a very difficult time. I hope your mom is not in any pain and you are able to spend time with her. If you ever want to talk or vent my DMs are open.
