If you can swing it, take an occasional visit to to relieve permanent caretaker, super helpful. If he is not to incoherent call weekly, if things get tough financially maybe chip in occasionally.

I call and talk even though I get usually one sentence replies every Fri as things have progressed. Everyone (patient is different) but luckily, now my mom and  and dad are severely impaired but very mellow compaired to many. Research and fwd or call  about anything helpful. 

Also lots of communication w caregiver about "how can I help".
If he is in the states, each state has a home health service. Helps with independent living for those who are disabled. Here are some other orgs to look at. Dementia mentors, dementia international alliance, and Alzheimers association. Can find through google. All of these can give you good resources to help out from a far and possibly help him help himself. Good luck.
If you have a lot of old family photos/photos of his life, you could assemble a photo book or scrapbook and either make it by hand and send it by mail, or assemble one digitally and get it printed and mailed through shutterfly or another service. If he’s early, then exercising his memories of who people are, will help him keep them longer. You could even just buy a puzzle and have it mailed to them, it will give his brain some exercise and be a special gift from you. 

Aside from that, the best thing you can do is research online without being distracted by the patient’s immediate needs. Find what options exist for caregivers paid by the state (in the US, Medicaid) or Adult Day Programs. Or even social opportunities for seniors local to his area.
  
I know with my  
grandmotheer, it really helped that i called her EVERY morning at 9am -- part  
of her morning routine.  
Even the week she  
died, she thought about me -- hallucinations that i was a child outside by the  
river, and must be brought in.  
... but there is a  
lot of variety in the path of dementia. My own path is already 20yrs along now,  
and i am only ... something over 60yo (born 1957 but can no longer subtract).
