So everything will be done in her "best interests". Medically I can explain, the social side not so much I'm afraid. I'd recommend you talk to the nurse in charge and the discharge facilitator on the ward (the DF will probably be able to explain more). The GP should also be able to help sort things. SS should pay back her bills but I don't know much about that side of it all I'm afraid. Her family and friends (normally children/partner really) should be included in all medical discussions, again, I'm not sure about the social ones. 
It might be worth discussing with the drs whether this is an acute loss of capacity (delirium for example) or if they think she's at her baseline and that she lacks capacity. It's also worth remembering and considering that capacity is time and decision specific. Just because she lacks capacity to decide if she wants ITU for example doesn't mean she lacks capacity to decide if she wants antibiotics. In short, discuss what she lacks capacity for, and why they've decided she lacks capacity now and the decision can't wait until she's recovered from the acute issue.
Capacity wise, her short term memory is bad. When she made lunch (with her carer) she decided she wanted rolls for lunch. So the carer got the ham, cheese, butter and set it in front of her. Her carer moved the rolls out of her eyeline and nan started to look for the sliced bread. Carer had to prompt her about the rolls. Also asks the same question about 5-6 times.

Confused easily. You have to rephrase information until it registers.

Over generous with money. I had to be the bad guy quite a lot and stop her giving money away to the kids. £5 a week to the older ones. If they do a chore (take her somewhere in the wheelchair locally) she could only give them £5 (roughly the local taxi fare). 

Frailty, she is very unsteady on her feet. We have had to block her garden off with a bench to stop her using the washing line. (Unfortunately the neighbour were using her washing line at the time)

Slow at every thing. The only way to describe it is it looks like she is recalling what to do. Something that is automatic to most people (e.g making a cheese roll), needs a lot of thought processes to implement.

Medicine-not compliant, as in forgetting to take them and confusion regarding the docket box . I managed to get a system where I would cut the day’s tablets for her. She sort of managed. She has been told that she cannot manage her medication anymore. She is allowed to manage her own paracetamol which I was a bit surprised about. 

Behaviours- currently she has calmed down. I’ve managed to convince her that we are not the enemy. I need to convince her that the carer isn’t the enemy. 

I have told her about the “lacking capacity” and she is quite cross about it. She acknowledges that i helped her manage her bills etc. She wanted that to continue but I had to tell her it was too late. Now she was deemed “lacking capacity” we couldn’t get power of attorney.

I’m the only granddaughter. I have 5 children and a disabled father to care for. Currently i am doing shopping, clothes washing, popping in after school with the kids. The (adult) social worker is telling me I need to do more with hospital Appointments, care etc. Her daughter (my mum) died a few years ago, her son is in Australia and although is interested in her care and likes to be informed can’t do any thing. She has family a few hundred miles away. “Well we can’t have her here!” When we told them what was going on.
That sounds really rough, you're already doing so much for everyone. There are 2 things I can say that might help? 
This needs a frank discussion with the team in the hospital, and with your dad and your nans gp. It sounds like you need help looking after them, this isn't a reflection on you at all, but just recognising that you're human and looking after kids and them! I don't know whether you have carers for them already, but they can reduce the work on you by either getting them up, dressed, washed, fed etc or just helping, how much help you need is up to you. 
The second thing is make sure you have time for yourself. You need to make sure you have some time to look after yourself and breathe. There are some brilliant charities which can help - carers uk is the first that comes to mind. They provide all sorts from support groups, carers to give you a day off, daycare for the dependent. You'll still have the kids, but it would just be them, and if your partner is able you could organise the odd day just for you. Alternatively, sleepovers forth kids and just the two of you have a day to yourselves. If yiu don't take some time to yourself you risk burn out and resenting them which just makes you feel guilty about feeling that way. 
I wish I could add more regarding social services, it sounds like a very un sympathetic social worker, have you had a chance to explain all that to them? If so and they're not helping you should consider asking to talk to their supervisor because it sounds like they're just not recognising your limits and concerns.

Feel free to dm me. Hope you're ok, lookafter yourself too!
I think i might have to bluntly tell them what’s going on. I was ok with shopping, and popping in after school. I can’t do appointments etc. Not because I don’t want to, but because of the children and my dad. My aunt is offering to “have a word”. I might have to take her up on her offer. Hopefully a few boundaries can be put in place.
