Can you keep control of her finances while giving her a little more freedom at home?  for instance it sounds like you really needed to step in with the 2 meals a day when you did, but now that she is stronger and that seems to be annoying her, could you maybe go down to one and just make sure her kitchen is stocked with easy things like soups and fruit?   I know with my mom, she was pretty far gone as far as the money stuff went, but she still had lots of opinions about how she wanted to live her daily life.  When I was able to give her the daily life she wanted, I could control all the things she was forgetting about behind the scenes without her even knowing.  

In my case I was advised not to go for guardianship and at the end of the day I’m glad I didn’t bother, bc once I learned how to work around mom and she continued to deteriorate, we really didn’t need it.  

Everyone is different though.  Maybe you should give her attorney a call yourself and see what they think.  Or talk to the doctor.  

Also, if you haven’t done it already, maybe read a book about working with people with dementia. I haven’t read one myself, but I did read books on parenting toddlers back in the day and have found that at least in my moms case, a lot of similar strategies work.  Things like redirecting her when she gets agitated, and letting her feel like she is making choices about things. 

Also, r/dementia might be helpful.
Her attorney won't do anything if she's diagnosed with Alzheimers; there's a reason she has one and there's a reason she appointed you.  Can you call her attorney and explain the situation?
There is doubt about her ability to care for herself and make decisions. Talk to an attorney.
You’ve asked about whether your mom qualifies for your state’s In-Home Health Services to help out, if your state has any?  

She’s officially diagnosed with Alzheimers?  No reputable attorney will change a thing.  

It sounds like, even if she was in assisted living (and yeah, that’s the level of care for someone like her), they might not want her.
I hadn't thought about State financed in-home health services. I'll be sure to look into that. 

Also, thanks for the reassurance about attorney's not changing her documents. I have provided them with the Doctor's diagnosis and they've said that they won't schedule an appointment without my knowledge.
See if this has any useful info:  

https://docs.google.com/file/d/16Zyn2NwD59JWGgzFOSNkiOuqgpatjWBZ/edit?usp=docslist_api&filetype=msword
That's excellent. Thanks!
I'm adding some stuff today or tomorrow.
