Covid + dementia means you will need medical advice in person. This is not a road you should travel alone. The Primary Care Provider (doctor, physician assistant, nurse practitioner) can get to know the patient and evaluate/treat them before a late night trip to the ER is required. That’s one way to get medical care and avoid hospitals. If you don’t know where to learn about insurance options for you, google it for your state (US). Horrible experiences at hospitals can often be avoided by early medical care.

As for dementia, search YouTube for early onset dementia and young onset dementia (same thing, just a new name). The more you learn about his disease, the easier it is to accept and learn to handle things. Read the pinned Resources post at the top of this subreddit. It will help you feel less stressed.
my heart goes out to you and your family, i am so sorry about what your going through. 

i myself have never been in this situation, however, i just wanted to note a few things

1. YOU NEED HEALTH INSURANCE. i don’t know what state you guys are in, but i live in MA and we can sign up for MassHealth, which is affordable healthcare. Your dad may be able to get on medicare, i am unsure, but he can definitely get on something similar to mass health for your state. depending on your state, i might be able to help you further

2. does he get disability, because if he doesn’t, he should, and that may ease the financial burden. 

3. When my (22F) grandmother (87, i live with her) gets sick, she always gets a dementia flare up, which depending on the stage on dementia could show different symptoms. specifically for my grandmother (everyones different) it usually goes back to normalcy when she gets better, you have every reason to worry, but in my experience, when my grams recovers, it goes back to her “normal” to “slightly worse” after she gets better. 

4. consider (when your family recovers) getting the vaccine. I don’t know your allergies or religious affiliations, but there is a new, more deadly strain of covid coming/is already here and the 50+ crowd are particularly affected. I am a recent graduate of chemistry and after reading scientific unbias articles, its shown to be 90-95% effective AND if one does get covid after receiving the vaccine, the symptoms are not as severe. 

5. I cannot say, being not familiar with your families financial situation, that its in the best interest of your entire family at the moment to bring him to the hospital if your main concerns are this dementia flare up. if he or any of your family start exhibiting severe covid symptoms, i would be in your best interest to go to the hospital. 

in conclusion, sign up for health insurance, if your dads dementia is at this state, he needs to regularly see a doctor and when flare ups happen in the future, your doctor is only all call away. furthermore, hospital bills, while still being a burden, will be less substantial. there are programs in place designed to help people with dementia with financial struggles, but the ones i am aware of require health insurance. 

Good luck and i hope i gave good advice
If he’s experiencing severe symptoms bring him to the hospital immediately. 

But if he isn’t, I agree with all the suggestions here. I think they’re all spot on but what I will provide is my experience with my grandma.

Back in December, my family and grandma (83F) with dementia got covid. We all recovered but my grandma felt “off.” So my mom and aunt (her primary care takers) asked if she wanted to go to the hospital and she said yes. At the time, my grandma was experiencing Chest discomfort but didn’t elaborate anything else; she has been known to fake being sick but we always take it seriously. Since my mom was living with her, she brought her to the hospital and explained that she has severe dementia, can’t comprehend or remember what the doctor says and has severe anxiety. The hospital stated no matter what, all covid patients or contagious patients must go into isolation/covid unit without any family members. My grandma agreed and the moment she was placed in her room (which is locked due to covid) she began panicking and freaking out. The hospital claimed they would treat dementia patients differently but surprise they don’t. I understand why but just remember this if you bring him to the hospital. She was released in about 5-6 hours, was admitted around the time she begins sun downing and slept for almost 48 hours straight afterwards. It was a hot mess. 

Based on my experience, I would still be a little hesitant bringing my grandma BUT if it came down to it, I’ll do whatever it takes to make sure she’s ok and healthy. My grandma was so traumatized by her experience she refuses to ever go to the hospital again. Now, I had to go there when I had covid and they do lock you in this glass unit where the doctors came in via hazmat suits or masks. I can completely understand why my grandma was confused and scared. The doctor’s did call my mom whenever they spoke to my grandma; my grandma still didn’t understand anything even when my mom repeated the information back. i don’t think they should’ve left her alone or not allow a family member that lives with her to be with her. 

Again no matter what, get your dad the correct medical attention. I would contact their primary doctor and neurologist if they have one to determine next steps.
Millions of people are uninsured in America because they simply cannot afford it. It isn’t just as easy as signing up, it is not a choice.
