When I hear these stories, I always think “Sounds like Aunt needs to try taking care of her for a couple of months. See what she says then!” Such a response isn’t helpful, I know. I just wanted to let you know I’m on your side and believe you.
Yes my grandma who is a lovely person, has turned into a missive liar.
Oh man, my mom is just like that. It's escalated the last few months and she sees a conspiracy every day. She also refuses to go to the doctor "there's nothing wrong with me" or accept any kind of help, everyone is just trying to rip her off, especially me and my sister. It's frustrating but I'm learning about dementia and how to handle shit like this and that helps. So...I hear and feel you.
You're not alone. I know the feeling. One of the super mind-bending things that happened with my dad was that he came to believe that the reason he was so foggy and confused was because we were drugging him. So he stopped taking his meds. Which were the only thing keeping him even semi-lucid, since they did NOT include any sedatives but DID include stuff like his anti-psychotic (nuplazid) and cognitive meds (memantine, rivastigmine, etc). He attacked us if we insisted, so then many days he didn't get his meds, so he went further off the deep end into paranoid delusions and brain fog. And then became even more convinced we were drugging him. No amount of reasoning, pleading, reassuring, or anything ever got through to him. He hid his pills everywhere. He threw them down the basement stairs. He tried to push my mom down the basement stairs one night after she told him to take his meds, yelling that she was trying to murder him.

I swear, this disease drives us as crazy as it does them.
Yes my grandma who is a lovely person, has turned into a missive liar.
My mother has the same problem... thinks all kinds of paranoid things. Makes accusations about money. Thinks people are spying on her. She also keeps insisting that I'm divorced and keeps asking me if I ever hear from my ex. He's not my ex -- we've been married for over 20 years. I just keep telling myself that her mind is broken. I'm sorry that your aunt doesn't seem to understand that. Why don't you tell her that Grandma says she stole her necklace? That'll give her an idea of what being falsely accused by someone with dementia feels like.
Excellent advice.
The bright and shining moment when my sister finally recognized that Mom had dementia, even though I'd been telling her for over a year was when she went down for a visit and watched Mom doing her meds box for the week and realized how messed up it was. She mentioned to Mom that maybe someone should help her with it, Mom screamed at her and put everything away and told her to get out. My sister got everything back out, got mom settled down a bit and they went over the meds and did them up right. A couple of days later she was down again for something else and saw the meds box and how screwed up it once again was. She fixed it again and told my brother who lived with Mom to keep an eye on her when she was messing with her meds box. Mom flipped and stopped taking her meds completely because no one was going to boss her! She ended up in the hospital with congestive heart failure, the doctor said it was because she hadn't been taking her blood pressure meds properly.

When she got out of the hospital, she came home to a house with none of her medications in it. They were at my house and that's where they startyed except a one or two week supply in daily boxes that were kept in a locked box that my brother got out on a daily basis for her. She resisted, she still picked through then and demanded to know what some pills were because she didn't recognize them, but he made sure she took them every day and eventually she stopped grumbling.

Dealing with dementia is not for the faint of heart.
She not a liar. She has dementia. To her, these things really happened. It's her brain messing with her. Your entire family needs to learn more about dementia.
You said it. It's a rough ride for everyone.

Weird how so many things are the same. One of the first signs something was seriously wrong was when my dad started spending hours sorting his pills for the week, and eventually couldn't do it. He also picked through them and demanded to know what they were before he'd take them, too. Problem was, he couldn't understand and/or remember the explanations. He also routinely got convinced that the meds had changed when they hadn't, or that he had to take them in a specific order, or he just got confused and didn't understand HOW to take them so instead of taking them with a sip of water, say, he'd pour the water on the pills. By the time we put him in memory care it took at least an hour and sometimes two to get him to take 3 pills, and that was on good days, when he was willing to take them.

Now the nurse just puts them in chocolate syrup and shoves them in his mouth. He isn't thrilled, and kind of hates that particular nurse now, but at least he doesn't have the opportunity to fuss or argue for hours.
We don’t, we work in healthcare sometimes the humour can be a bit flippant.  

Dementia also runs in our family, it will likely be my end as well.
