Dementia can strip away societal filters.  Most things around sexuality are taught, not innate so if that part of the brain degrades those teachings are lost.  I wouldn't assume he'd always been a pervert.  This disease has reduced him to this.  If your dad (as you remember him) saw this behavior he'd most likely be appalled and humiliated.  Just keep telling yourself; "It's not him talking, it's the disease."
It's the dementia. Ify suggest watching some Teepa Snow videos on YouTube to help you understand the disease better. It definitely helped me and my family.
Damn that’s a lot to handle. Might be worth talking to a therapist even. Sending strength to you & your mom.
Another vote for dementia. My dad became very interested in the barely legal young porn stars as his dementia got worse...
Dementia, especially frontal-temporal dementia, can produce unhealthy and unnatural sexual desires in patients. While it's not 100% certain, it does seem like the behavior you are describing is consistent with dementia, especially if this behavior was not previously present.
If it really happened to your mom when she was a teenager, it cannot be dementia.  Is it possible she misinterpreted things?  I get the feeling the answer is no so yes, I actually think he was always a pervert.

But what's happening now is that he can't hide that perversion as well anymore.  My dad cannot hide what's inside anymore.  Which isn't being a pervert but he's constantly insulting people cause that's what he really thinks in his mind.
[deleted]
I would think about whether you want to leave him alone with any women.  What your mom (and I think you too though I'm not sure on that one) described is sexual assault though not full out penetrative rape.  With dementia, would he go even further sooner or later?  

There are male only foster homes in my area.  As a warning, I think some homes will not take residents with a violent history.  So might want to double check if it's OK to mention something like this to prospective homes before putting him into a care home when the time comes.
