Do not try to convince your dad to have sex with his wife. That is none of your business for one thing. For another, your mom no longer feels like his wife. Yes, it still looks like her, but it doesn’t feel like her to him, most likely. The emotional relationship has changed and he is fulfilling the “in sickness” part of the contract. Loving someone enough to care for them does not mean you have to have sex with them.
I would just leave it alone. I'm sure your dad is aware of how she feels and he doesn't need one more "duty" on his plate.  When/if he feels like being intimate with his wife, he will. If he feels like he has to do it, it will only make it another chore for him to do.

It's sweet of you to want to "fix" this for your mom.
Personally I’d mention to dad that this is one thing bothering her because she may not tell him. I’d tell him that maybe if he sweet talks to her or just cuddles once in a while that she would be more content. What he does with this info is up to him. He may not honestly know what’s going on. If she is t in anxiety meds now she will need them to help her anger.  She should not be hitting him at all and that isn’t fair to him.
I’m not sure the age of your mom, but could this be libido swings due to menopause?  If so, might be worth getting her on hormonal meds.
Oh man, that's a tough one. Maybe try a relationship counselor or something? I know there are sex therapists and such, so it might be an option. Definitely sounds like an outside perspective would alleviate some of thr awkward feelings for you and your parents.
Good point about the 'in sickness' part. but shes hot to trot and hes like ummm no thanks so she gets super pissed and violent sometimes, how the heck does he chill that out? i wonder if theres some sort of medication that she could take to kill her sex drive, if so is that cruel?  To say that if this doesnt stop she will divorce him. Holy heck that will just make a mess of everything. Shes not competent enough to ride this out by herself which means either she goes south to stay in a home close to my brother or I have to come home and assume the role of caregiver and home owner seeing as my father will probably just leave and go live close to one of his brothers. I personally dont want to live back home and i certainly dont want to own a home or care for a home. I come home every 6 months and help out for a month or so.
Im really just looking for suggestions to offer them not advice to give. I cant see my dad wanting sex from mom anymore and i sure will not push him into it.
He knows i told him yesterday. It was embarrassing because one thing irish catholics dont talk about is money and sex (great huh). I reckon he just doesnt want to anymore and I get it. Hes in the caregiver role now and intimacy is gone. moms hot to trot and it more than likely is caused by the disease or the meds.
almost 80 . that ship sailed a long while ago.
she has a cognitive therapist but she only sees her once every 6 weeks. i wonder if that could be bumped up to once a week.
In order to file for divorce when she has been diagnosed with dementia. your mom would have to convince a judge that she understands the consequences of the divorce. Good luck with that, mom. 

Also, this increased sex drive and her inability to be appropriate about it is likely a symptom of her dementia.
Well good to hear a judge would be smart about this. I believe you are correct about the disease causing her to be more free wielding. I feel bad for both of them, to lose your wife at such an important time in ones life must be mind blowing but not in a good way.
