I’m in the same boat. 39. Not single but not married  and trying for kids but who knows. Dementia strong in my family and I’m currently caring for my mom.  Luckily she has me and my sister and enough money. 
Don’t know what I’ll do if I wind up with it. Terrified.
There is testing but doctors have told me, and I agree, why know when nothing can currently be done. There are things to do to help avoid or starve off the disease. 

Exercise. This is #1. So much easier said than done. But 20 min of cardio a week is said to have majorly preventive benefits. I bought a spin bike. 

Learn new things. All the illness and pandemic etc has made thIs hard for me to accomplish but yeah. Learn new things. Read books. Keep kind active. 

SocialiZation. Pandemic kind of screwed that, but try more and more now. 

Diet. Duh. We all know this. Sugar is the devil. Mediterranean diet. Brain diet. Etc. 

Stress and depression. Avoid it. I haven’t figure this one out yet. 

A new med was just approved by the FDA. It appears to maybe slow and remove the amyloidosis plaque in EARLY stage patients. Keeping an eye on it and praying. 

Sorry you’re in this boat too
I'm in a similar situation as you.  F, 46, single, reluctant caregiver, dad with other relatives with dementia.  And my brain already feels muddy with my adhd which I think increases risk for certain types of dementia though my dad doesnt have those types (he does have adhd tho).

I asked the same question to my doctor and she pretty much avoided answering tho I think I'll ask my dads neurologist next time I see her.

Dr. Just told me to exercise, stay happy, and eat right cause even if I knew, there is nothing to be done.  She said there weren't any proven brain exercises that help but im going to try to get myself to play an instrument again anyway and listen to more music just in case.  I'm hoping they find a cure before I get it.  I'm actually hoping for a cure for death before I get too old but I feel much more positive about them finding a cure for dementia before we get that old.  They finally have some new drugs out like the other person mentioned so I do feel hopeful.

I did Google and saw there were some genetic tests for specific kinds of genes but that people with those genes weren't actually nearly as common as those that have alzheimers.

https://www.alz.org/alzheimers-dementia/what-is-alzheimers/causes-and-risk-factors/genetics
Look into moving into a Continuing Care Retirement Community sooner rather than later. Some CCRC, charge you one price regardless of you level of care. But in order to qualify, you have to be healthy enough when you enter that you will be in Independent Living for awhile.
I have a similar end of life plan. Im a climber so it involves walking to the top of my favorite crag (if I can’t climb up) via the walkoff route and “fall” so nobody knows I checked out
I'd recommend Dr Dale Bredesen's work for some info on potentially preventing it or at least slowing it down.
