You might take her to a urologist and discuss whether low-dose prophylactic antibiotics would help her to avoid UTIs.  You might also consider getting her a bidet toilet seat.
[deleted]
In your same boat! To help with this, showers have become a before breakfast thing now. If she wants breakfast, she showers first. It's amazing that this has worked. I have also incorporated cranberry pills and cranberry juice into her diet. It helps, or seems to. At mom's next appointment I am going to discuss a low dose of antibiotics with her doctor. She (doctor) gave it as a suggestion at the last appointment, but I kind of waved it away. Now I think it might be a good idea. 

Good luck!
Hire someone to bath her. Sometimes someone coming in can get them to do stuff that family members can't. Tell her the doctor prescribe this person to come in and help her take a shower.
Maybe something she likes (chocolate candies, TV show) could be withheld until she showers?

My friend’s mom sort of forgot how to wash herself. So, my friend got in the shower with her with nice smelling soaps and shampoos for what she called “spa day.”
Is it summer where she is? Would she enjoy a nice pool in the sunshine? That way dad could join her and it could be more of a recreation thing (add some soap to the water too) They sell really nice inflatable pools designed for adults. 

They also sell portable soaking tubs that she might enjoy if its presented as a relaxation or luxury experience rather than a hygiene issue. 

Shower aversion often is a sensory issue, so id try to find ways to distract or change the setting a bit to help change the sensory input.
Fortunately my mom lets me bathe her, but she’s also prone to UTIs and I’ve had some luck with adding two supplements to her routine daily. She takes two Uqora Control capsules in the AM and two Ellura concentrated cranberry capsules in the PM. Since starting this routine she’s been UTI free! It’s a safer alternative than daily low grade antibiotics. I would ask for that only as a last resort because it can make her more susceptible to infections down the line from antibiotic resistant bacteria.
I have a similar issue with my mother (64 years old, early-stage dementia). I've found that gentle prompting is more useful than blunt-impact speech. Everything is tone of voice, not the content of what I say. Instead of, "Did you shower?" why not try, "Would you like to take a shower?" or "May I draw you a bath?"

Additionally, you might try just drawing her a nice warm bath and having it ready for her. It's harder for her to say no when it is already done, you know? (Extra points if your dad can do it and make it romantic with candles and aromatherapy or something.) The less effort *she* has to make, the better. If these ideas don't work, try experimenting along similar lines.

I wish you the best. I know how hard it is to see a loved one struggle with a fight they're bound to lose. The most important thing we as caregivers can do is to provide comfort, ease, and love.
Two ideas : Daily Log of Activities : What she does , eats is logged daily . Show to her when she argues. Worked with my Mom. Also there are pre moistened cleaning cloths available in most grocery stores.  They are soft, one use , clean effectively, size of a washcloth.  Best wishes !
The memory care facility thought my mother had chronic UTIs but eventually determined it was bacterial colonization paired with a sharp downturn of cognitive function due to her dementia. Might be the case for your mom as well.

https://betterhealthwhileaging.net/urine-bacteria-without-uti-in-elderly/
Having the shower stuff all ready to go, water running at a good temperature, and then leading her into the bathroom on whatever pretense works. 

Once she is in the room with the water on she might feel ready to get in.
You could get a hospice company paid by Medicare to come in and give her showers. My mom gets them from a nurse twice a week in our home.
I’m dealing with the same thing bc with my grandfather. He’s never enjoyed showering, even when he was younger, so it’s always been tough making hygiene a priority. I’m definitely reading through these comments to find some helpful tips!!
My MIL is losing bowel control, could this also be related to UTIs?

Many positive thoughts coming your way :)
I just gave up. My mother was terrified and fought hard about showering. She does sink baths. We use no rinse soap/shampoo. She smells fine, her skin is healthy, and no UTI’s. In the shower Mom was afraid of falling even with a seat. I have also read that the water can cause a type of sensory overload. Mom had her last shower in June 2019. She is on hospice now. The nurses all commented on how healthy her skin looked.
Hire a caregiver to come in and give her a shower. see if they can figure something out.
I learned something new today.  I'm going to ask her doctor about this.  Many thanks!
Ooh, a little creative communication!  Thanks for the suggestion.
Thanks, good luck to you too!
As much as I would LOVE to do this, unfortunately, it won't work (at least right now).  My mom is at the beginning to middle stages of dementia and still somewhat lucid.  She can barely tolerate having a caregiver come in once a week, even though she likes her.

Her caregiver is basically a companion who hangs around with mom while my dad runs errands and such.  

Aside from dementia, my mom is in great physical health and walks at least 1 mile a day.  She's far from frail and feels great, so that's why getting her help is hard because in her mind she doesn't feel or look sick.

I will keep your suggestion in mind for the future.  Thanks!
Thank you.  I've already purchased some lovely soaps and shower gels for her.  She was excited at first, but now she hardly uses them.  When my father brings up showering, she gets offended and says her feelings are hurt and that she already showers daily (not true). 

I live out of state, so reminding her is a waste of time because I'm not present to make sure she showers.

I'm contemplating creating a large poster with her schedule on it that includes daily showering.  My mom is a veteran and a "by the book" kind of person.  I'm thinking if she has a strict daily schedule to follow, she may stay on track.  I suppose it's worth a try.
I’ll look into these supplements. Thank you!
Great idea!  Thank you!
Thank you!  My mom has an appointment with her doctor soon.  We'll bring this up.
That's a good question.  I'm not sure.  A nurse brought up UTIs when I mentioned my mom's dementia progressed overnight.  It's pretty common.   Now they seem to be reoccurring every 4 - 6 weeks.

Best of luck to you with your MIL.
Do you realize how expensive that is?
I'm going through this with my MIL right now.  She had a stroke about 10ish years ago but is now, I believe, in some stage of dementia (appointment Monday with a neurologist).  I don't know how confident you are or what your comfort level is, but I basically just worked her into it by announcing I was coming in with her to 'wash her hair.'  Now I just step in and set a schedule to help her bathe (her range of motion is limited and she has other balance issues).  

There were tears and a struggle with the loss of independence and it's a process of continuous adjustment where we have to work through the awkwardness.  The first time, I distracted her from the undressing by warning her that if she had 'tentacles' or something she'd best warn me or I'd scream.  By the time she worked her way around my startling humor, I had her peeled.  It's timing.   Similar thing happened when helping with toileting - she was struggling to urinate with me in there so I asked her if she was a folder or a wadder and confessed I'm a folder (as I spooled out the toilet paper.)  That little decision was enough distraction for nature to take over and the flow/relief to happen.  

I'm trying to get her adjusted to the assisted side of living and make it as much of a positive thing as I can -> "Look how much faster, easier, less cold, etc. this method is... but there isn't/wasn't going to be any point at which she was going to agree outside of me just barging in and making it work.  (I'm not a nurse but I've been dealing with medically fragile family for over 30 years so this is not necessarily something I expect 'just anyone' would be comfortable doing.)   This might be something a hired helper might be able to assist with, though, since they'd be trained to handle the transition period.
Sounds like a great idea. 👍
You’re welcome! Best of luck to you!
She needs a caregiver to come in 1 hour a day, 2 to 3 days a week.

It's $26 per hour where I live.  Might bump it to $30 since only 1 hour a day.  $90/week.  A hell of a lot cheaper than a nursing home.  Same cost as 1 day of adult day care.

Dementia costs money though this is affordable for middle income people.
All the caregivers in my parents city require a 4 hour minimum. I don’t know if it’s the norm anywhere else.
I get she needs help I’m trying to say it’s something that should be 100% covered. It’s bs what we have to pay for Heath wise
Are you sure?  I know mine allowed for less cause I almost hired one.  All I had to do was sign.
Oh I see.  Yeah it's so wrong.  We pay for health insurance our entire lives and when we need it most, it doesn't cover it.  Dementia should absolutely be covered by health insurance.
I'm positive.  I called every service in town.  Besides, as I stated earlier, my mother is in the beginning stages and pretty lucid.  She would never consent to a shower assistant.
That's too bad.  My dad is lucid too but he'd give in with pressure.
I wish my mom was that cooperative.  She's a little firecracker.  We receive pushback on everything - doctor's appointments, medication, you name it.  It's exhausting!
My dad pushes back a lot of stuff too.  He's just surprisingly immodest.

It is very exhausting.  Hope the showing schedule thing works.
Thank you!
