You could get an iPad and connect with her phone and use the find my phone feature. I’m not sure there’s anything compatible between android and iPhones
It's interesting that you bring this question up.  First, to answer your question specifically, an easy way to accomplish what you have in mind is to use the Google Maps location sharing feature.  You need a google account and is easiest to use if everyone sharing each has their own google account.  This only works when she has her phone with her, but you mention she is not losing it and keeping it nearby, so it can help for a while.  Regarding something less invasive, it's only as invasive as you need it to be.  It sounds like she is reaching a point in her dementia where you have to weigh safety versus privacy.  Being aware of her right to self determination- to a point- demonstrates that you will not use the function for invasive purposes.  If you haven't done so, you will also be faced with determining when she should stop driving and handling her finances independently.  This is devastating for our loved ones and ourselves.  But just like a parent puts safety measures in place for kids (think holding their hand when crossing the street, or requiring a bike helmet or seatbelt), we must put safety measures in place in accordance to their stage in dementia.

Second, I am creating an app for caregivers and their loved ones with dementia.  I just got hooked up with an incubator, so this thing might really happen!  One of the features would include a location monitor, but it will include other features to simplify phone use for the loved one and provide support to the caregiver.  Let me know (any caregiver can participate at this stage- so this invite is for everyone) if you'd like to participate in a focus group or be a beta tester.  

It sounds like your mom is about where my dad is.  Sending a hug your way.
You can connect her iCloud information to your iCloud email- from there you should be able to centrally manage and find my iPhone. 

We also have purchased a tile and a Fitbit with GPS tracking. 

Not sure where you live, but in the winter where I am, all three did fail us one night- batteries died in the cold. There are certainly limits to technology
I use Life360 as my husband has an iPhone and I'm on Android. You can label places and set alarms e.g. if they leave or arrive home.
Oh I do have an ipad already. So if anything i could just use that. I want to avoid "tracking" her all the time. But just when we're worried about her so in theory just using my ipad would be best for that anyway.
Like I know you don't need to hear this but I just felt like I need to vent for a minute, she apparently has a boyfriend from what I've gathered. But her husband is still very alive and cognitively well. She left yesterday and when we asked where she was going she said maybe one day I'll let you know. And didnt come back until this morning. Her CC app has a payment to her therapist and gas nearby therapist office. But after that I have no idea. Maybe her assumed boyfriend but who fucking knows lol. It's kind of funny but sad at the same time
Thank you for your support. I really appreciate it. This is so difficult, as you know. My mom denies having dementia, she occasionally admits to being forgetful. But thinks I'm bullying her when I bring up dementia or a neurology appointment or even anything to improve her quality of life. I'd being willing to beta test something on my end, but in regards to my mom's end and her having something on her phone that she could tell is for dementia, she would not be happy with it. I would not want her to start leaving her phone home. Right now sometimes she will leave the house with her phone and not her keys, like how a teenage is obsessed with remembering their phone! Lol. 

I will definitely be doing the Google maps sharing feature. She already uses that as her navigation on her phone instead of the iphone one too.
Oh you're right I could put a tile in her car! (Or maybe purse). Roughly how long would you say the tile battery lasts? We do get some pretty brutal winter days sometimes. Not as bad as some places but we can get hit with weeks at a time where it is bad. 

That's a good idea to have more than one way of tracking because sometimes she does not charge her phone enough.
Depending on how bad her dementia is, I think there is nothing wrong with tracking her all the time. You don’t have to always look at it but there’s no harm in it to make sure she’s safe. The thing about dementia is that you just can’t predict what the person will do or go, and they don’t know either.
You’re fine to vent. People with Dementia do all kinds of strange and out of character things. It’s definitely worrisome when you can’t find your person! My mom had Alzheimer’s and she had personality changes.
We bought the tile with the replaceable battery and so far haven’t had to replace since December. So it last awhile for sure. 

The more proactive you can be, the more peace of mind you will have.
That definitely sounds like a great idea! I'm going to get one for her. It's so ironic because when she dealt with her mom's dementia she said she would never be difficult when she had dementia lol and here we are.

You are totally right. I get so worried about her sometimes. It sucks that I am the one who get the most worried/most rational about her dementia. Sometimes my brother will be worried but he usually takes the attitude of oh stop worrying, she always makes it home. But I've been with her where she pulls over because she forgets where she is or where she is going.
