My advice is you do not have time to do these things nicely. You have power of attorney, and her affairs must be sorted. Sit in the garage and do the calls, maybe go sit in your car in the parking lot and just make the calls without her. Whatever you do will upset your mom-but only you can make sure its done correctly.   


 "is taking way too long and creating too much frustration for both of us." Unfortunately this is the case with dementia. You need to take control, even though you have children and a husband. If you aren't prepared to add her every activity from dressing, to bathroom, or hydration needs on top of your daily work/children/husband, you should look at getting an in home caretaker or maybe rehoming. Its hard to hear but I have no life, no kids, and im draaaaaaaaaained. I started a year ago and was against homing her, but now I wonder how much less I would have hurt myself if i had just done it.
I’ve been in the exact same position for a year. I do have a sister but she doesn’t really help manage the finances or practical side of things. She helps physically and emotionally. It’s been HARD. Moms a control freak. We argue a lot. She’s miserable about the loss of control. I imagine it’ll get worse and she’ll eventually think I’m stealing from her. It’s what happens. 
My only advise is to re direct. Or try. Just ok and immediately talk about something else. 

It’s so sad. And hard.
I agree that you should probably go ahead and do it yourself. Afterwards, you can go through the motions with her about the usual bills and things without worrying her too much. I have heard of people on here making fake checkbooks or bank slips to keep their LO occupied. there is going to come a time where you are going to have to pay for things that she will be even more disagreeable such as home health aids, hygiene products and such so it's best to test out a pantomime routine out now to see what works.
My dad is in roughly this stage, but my mom is his primary caregiver and my sister and I provide support.  My mom has said how hard this stage is.  She wonders if it is harder when they are somewhere in between functional and needing help with most things.  At this stage, he knows something is not right, but is able to do less and less and can't articulate his thoughts and needs.  

I've been thinking about it, and I've decided that every stage is going to be excruciating and painful, but probably for different reasons.  

What we have experienced so far is intentionally gradually reducing decisions and involvement in such a way that as the decision-making or actions fall to the wayside, we can do more and he/she do less.  

My mom (75, dad 77) has never been independent.  She has always handled the finances, but she consulted my dad about a lot of stuff, and he either made or helped make all major decisions.  My parents have also each had their own fun money.  They are needing to start saving a lot more so they can afford home care and nursing home if needed.  

My dad has lost the concept of money and started blowing it left and right.  

As far as paying bills and handling major decisions, supervise or help her do the things that are really important and work on the other stuff in the background.  Then, when she forgets to handle something be matter of fact, but considerate:  "Mom, the bills were due last week.  I've paid them and you don't have to worry about it."  It doesn't matter if they were due or late... we've learned that a distortion of the truth is often necessary with this illness.  Someone else mentioned having the bills paid automatically or online.  One way to do this is to explain (in very simple terms) that the company is moving to a new payment method and this is the way its done now.  It's another fiblet, but we really have to choose our battles.

With my dad, we've considered changing the mail that's important to a po box so he is not tempted to deal with the important stuff.  Then, out-of-sight, out-of-mind.  I also recommend switching out her typical credit and debit cards to a pre-paid card.  Let her keep some financial independence as long as possible, but within limits.

Over time, my dad is letting go of some of his biggest fights... so, we are trying to find things to take the place of what he used to do.  Don't feel like you have to explain everything or try to reason with her.  Keep your information necessary, short, and simple then attempt to distract.  Ask her questions to get her mind off these things.  Ask anything to take her down memory road- what was her favorite job or store, what was high school like, ask for advice and just listen... I have found just taking the time to let my dad talk about whatever helps him feel loved and connected, even as he becomes more dependent on us.

My apologies for the novel!!  I just feel your pain.  We all have to be in this together.
An idea - is it possible to pay the bills online and then show your mother "See? This month's  bill has already been paid!"

You might have to repeat that a bit but it might be more reassuring for her?
A frame I used to get my dad to move was. “This isn’t working anymore, you need help, let me help you.”

(I was kind of surprised when he agreed.)

I also made some command decisions and told him they were just going to happen. 

I haven’t moved him to a care home, yet but the above statement got him dug out of his house during the pandemic.
She just moved into assisted living last month, took some convincing but she is happy as a claim, and loving all the social interaction, it's honestly the best quality of life she's had in a few years. It's been a HUGE relief to have an entire team of people helping us now instead of everything coming down to me (at the expense of my kids, husband, job, and mental health). Now that she's safe, I'm catching up on all her personal affairs. It's hard to know the right answer since every situation is so different. I can't know what you've been through but I'm so drained even after just 3 months of being her "handler".
Exactly. We needed a $15,000 air conditioner and had it been left to my grandma to replace it, she would be dead. She would never agree to it in her current state, but would NOT wait a second if she were in her pre-dementia state. It was 117 degrees on Monday.
When I first wrote out a check for her for something that I hadn't set up to pay electronically, my mom was super relieved and shared with me that writing checks had been getting so hard that she had to go through several checks to get one right.
