I work in Homecare and we give many, many homebound elders their vaccinations. Believe it or not they have had far fewer of the side effects that our employees have had!

Most common complaints in the elderly has been lethargy and soreness at injection site. Good luck, may your experience be uneventful.
VACCINES DO NOT GIVE YOU THE FLU. Full stop. Get a bit of fever? Feel a little under the weather? That's because the vaccine is doing its job. It did NOT give you anything. 

Honestly,  I would discuss your concerns with his primary physician, but yes. It's safe.
My parents and I (in Australia) have all had the first dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine.

* Me (aged 50) - just about knocked me out for the day after: extreme fatigue, headache, nausea, loss of appetite. Like a 24-hour mini-flu; I could barely function. The next day I was mostly back to normal again ^(though worrying about blood clots *grumble*).
* Dad (in 80s): a bit of tiredness for a few days.
* Mum (also in her 80s): just got her first dose today, so side-effects are yet to show up. (*Update edit, the next day*: thankfully, no severe reactions so far! Just a little tiredness.)
Husband in his 90's, got a very slight rash at the injection site . . . that was it! A friend's Mom, 94 y/o w/ dementia, had no reaction at all. Both received Moderna. A number of their friends were tired for a day or so, but otherwise, nothing to note. Balance issues combined w/ him being tired just warrant a watchful eye. Good luck.
My  parents and mother-in-law (all in their 80's) had no side effects whatsoever.
My mom in her mid 70s was lethargic for a couple of weeks, with some muscle soreness. But aside from her being overly dramatic about it all, she was fine.
Yep. 89 year old MIL sailed through. Me 59 years young, felt yucky for 24 hours.
My MIL at 94 had no side effects.
Thanks, he has bad weakness and balance issues so I will keep a close eye on him for a few days.
Then forgive my punctuation and sentence structure, flulike symptoms as in resp flu. No it doesnt give you a disease but have heard firsthand of bad effects past feeling down for a few days. My concern is that at his age if the effects are more than just tired or achy it can create problems for him, and he wants it done NOW. Lol, stubborn as hell.

Thanks
Thank you, thats what Im hoping doesnt happen, as weak as he is with balance problems any harsh reactions could cause severe problems. glad it worked for you folks.
Im wondering if it hits elderly less hard or something. 

Thanks
Thx, hoping it goes well, ive read that most reactions are after second dose cause immune system may start fighting the vaxx, we shall hope for the best.
Thank you
Cool, thank you.
A large amount of the side effects (aches, cold like symptoms etc) are your immune system responding like it’s supposed to. That’s why young people are more likely to have the side effects- they have stronger immune systems so it’s a good sign for them.
I guess if it were me, I'd way the potential effects of the vaccine vs. the actual virus. Aren't they always stubborn? 😉
As another commenter here said, it might be because immune system reaction is weaker in the elderly, so they generally don't get as severe side-effects as younger people.
So his should be less since his immune system is weaker? Aye, I understand second shot may cause issues cause immune system is ramped up. My concern is he is weak so may not be able to handle effects well. And he is old school, wouldnt admit to a problem no matter what. he has pneumonia a couple months ago and never mentioned he felt bad.

Thank you.
thanks, he decided for himself of course. many say theres no side effects and I know firsthand there are. I dont think he is very likely at all to catch it considering everything but he wants it thats his decision. Im just concerned if he has side effects at his age they may cause more problems than in someone younger. he is a tough ole guy tho, will hope for the best
Thanks, lets hope so.
My grandparents (89 and 92 at the time) got theirs over the winter. Grandma had just recovered from covid, so comparatively the shot was a breeze. Grandpa had a sore arm and was a little tired. Meanwhile I (35) had a headache and my body ached for about 24 hours like crazy. But you know what? It’s better than Covid!
The worst effects of anyone I know have just been headache or tiredness. Usually tiredness. I hope he'll do well!
Thx, ive friends who had what you felt and worse. thats my concern. he doesnt go out alot anyway but I honor his wishes.
Thanks, me to, just curious of people in their 90s.
My grandma felt great after both of hers. Me, not so much. But very worth it so a few hours of body aches and a low grade fever was worth it!
Thanks
