Sudden decline may point to an infection of some sort, typically a UTI. I would take her to get tested.

And you are not horrible for wanting what's best for your mother, which is a safe and caring environment, with staff who understand what she's going through. I hope the move over to memory care goes smoothly for you and your mother.

Would mom also wear adult diapers, such as Depends?
No, you’re not a horrible person. Things have just progressed to the level where professionals can handle it better than you. Because they’re trained. Because they’re professionals. 

I hope you get a placement soon, too, and you can go back to being a caring daughter instead of a caregiver.
You have no reason to feel negatively. Incontinence and toileting are clear triggers for nursing care and you have mad the right choice for her and your family. Not sure where you are located but sound like you need PSW/home care services now.

My mother experienced sudden deterioration which cleared after resolving a UTI and a tooth infection - she went from toileting accidents and nor knowing how to turn the faucet to almost ADL functional. I'd say do the urine test again and check for any other infections.
No, you're not a bad daughter. I learned something recently that helped me put my dad's move to memory care in perspective: it takes about 20 employees to do what you, as a sole caregiver, are doing right now for her. The fact is, dementia caregiving is a LOT, not just because of the physical things you have to do but because of all the crazy behaviors you have to deal with. Just because she can't help being in this state doesn't mean it's any easier for you to provide that care. And you have a young child, too!

I hope the tests point to a UTI or some other easily resolved issue, because UTIs or other infections can cause a sudden and severe downturn. If it is a UTI, that'll make the wait for memory care easier, because treatment should bring her back up to her previous baseline. Otherwise, GenericMelon's idea for scheduled toileting is a good one. She's probably having accidents because she isn't realizing she has to go or, if she is, she can't find the bathroom.

Also, check her clothes. Sometimes if clothes are tight or hot or itchy or otherwise uncomfortable, a dementia patient will remove them. They can't communicate or, sometimes, even really understand what's wrong, but they feel that removing the clothes helps, so off the pants come. Maybe try putting her in some different clothes to see if that helps.
She was at the doctor a few days ago and he ran full blood tests, everything was normal. I have ordered her some diapers but I'm worried she's just going to take them off like she does her pants.
I'm going to call and make her another appointment on monday to request a new test.
Another suggestion I've seen here is to take mom to the toilet periodically throughout the day, rather than waiting for her to go on her own. This may cut down on the accidents.
It won't hurt and at least you can rule this out. We had to do urine something like 7-8 times as every time the results showed different things. On the tooth infection - the dentist was shocked she was not in strong pain - this is when we understood that she doesn't feel pain the same way as before and cannot signal these issues anymore.
Thats a good idea! Thank you i will try that
Wow I didn't know that about the pain! It's pretty interesting
And it can’t hurt to intro cranberry juice just in case (good for urinary infections). Seen some really good things w getting early Dementia folks to read out loud (seems to settle symptoms in the brain). Be awesome if you can convince your mom you need help reading to your 3 year old. Done daily for several minutes a day really helped my mom when she was forgetting and repeating herself.
