Does your mom trust her doctor?  I just recently went through this.  I told my mom that her doctor ordered a CT scan and I wasn't sure why.  I never mentioned dementia.  I did a little research and learned that a CT scan took 5 minutes or less since it was just the head.  I explained to my mom it would be quick and painless.

She was concerned that she may have a brain tumor, but I assured her it was unlikely.   
Somehow it worked.  We were in and out of there in no time.  The tech was also really friendly and she seemed to like that.  

As far as POA is concerned, I told my mom that it was routine and even had some documents notarized regarding my will, etc.  Basically, I brushed it off as normal family stuff.
If she refuses the CT scan, ask the neurologist what else can be done to get a diagnosis. A visit/exam by a neuropsychologist may actually be more helpful than the scan.
This may sound odd, but why do you need the official diagnosis? i mean, what will that actually do towards helping her? I’m not being facetious but I had a similar issue with my mom and I took her for a neuropsych assessment, she got kicked out after 15 minutes of the interview because the doctor thought she was getting aggressive. The report read “impression of dementia”. The drugs aren’t really effective, so why bother. We were fortunate that she trusted 1 of her 3 kids and so we got a PoA and other estate plans in place with some limited trickery. if you and your sister are on the same page, get your mom some psych meds to help calm her and talk to doctor about administering them if your mom is resistant to meds. Perhaps the meds might put her in a better state to get things done, including the CT scan
No.  She doesn't trust anyone.  She doesn't like any of her doctors.  It's been a struggle getting her to go see a doctor.  If it were up to her she would not go to the doctor ever again no matter how bad her health gets.  Thank you for taking the time to comment.  Did you have a lawyer write up the PoA?
I do not know.  I knew there was meds but didn't know they were considered ineffective.  This is all new for me.  It's been rough getting her to see a doctor and this has all happened so fast.  Her condition has gotten rapidly worse within a short time (less than a year especially in the last 6 months).
I'm so sorry. That certainly makes things more difficult. Like the other member suggested, maybe you can get her diagnosed a different way.

I did a medical POA actually.  The document was provided by my parent's health insurance (Kaiser).
