My favorite thing to do is pop them in a wheelchair and take them for a walk.  They get a change of scenery and I get exercise.  Of course, it's better if they can walk under their own power.
Yeh, "sitting on the couch in silence"  -- put on an old-style music radio station.  Idk what age bracket your dad is in?  Or what sort of work / hobbies did / does he have?  Is he mobile? You haven't given us much info to go on... 

Idk, do you have a garden, windows?   Can you put up a simple bird feeder?  Walk / sit in the garden, go to a nearby cafe?   Do some simple housework together like sweep the floors / garden path, put clothes in the machine / on the line / fold the clothes off the line (added benefit making things easier for your mom)... Get some very easy few-pieces jigsaw puzzles to do together?  Find some old old tv shows / movies from his younger days, would be familiar to him...

Idk, check out dementia .org & alzheimers .org for some ideas - they have tons info, resources, etc...   If he likes & is up for simple puzzles, Amazon have "dementia for elderly" stuff... Good luck!
I'm a one of the caregivers for my grandpa. He has some kind of his routine. He washes the balcony and the street in the morning while we prepare breakfast. Rest of the day he watches TV, goes swimming with one of us, does stuff in the garden in the most time consuming way. So far, our only caregiver duties are watch over him, like stop him from climbing somewhere or getting lost while walking. He has his own hobbies, we just need to make sure he remembers them.

Find what he likes, try to remind him his past hobbies. You don't need to interact with him constantly. Just remind him he can be doing something and try to push him in that direction. For example, at afternoon when I realise grandpa starts looking negative I just say "hey grandpa, are you busy? Can you check the flowers in the garden?" He distracts himself in a good way after that small push.
Care partners that I speak with often try to find activities that prompt some level of interaction or engagement.  Having these positive experiences together can increase connection and benefit you as the caregiver as well.  Think about things that have meaning to your father - maybe it's sports, cars, travel, nature or shared hobbies.  Find a coffee table book or magazine or online videos on those topics and use them to prompt conversation.  Talk about what you see, ask questions or reminisce.    


Depending on the stage of dementia, regular TV programs can be difficult to follow or confusing.  Online resources such as Zinnia TV ([zinniatv.com](https://zinniatv.com)) were crafted for people living with dementia and feature gently-paced, highly visual content on many different topics your father might find interesting.  You can also pause the videos throughout to start conversations.
You could put some of his old music on or old films on. Also go for walks and feed birds etc. Anything which he has an interest in
Activity is important foe the body and mind.

Simple games, minor projects, walks, road trips for an ice cream, etc.
I love all these answers.  Your mom is fortunate for your help.  As one person mentioned, you don't have to have something planned for your dad every minute.  If you're not already doing so, may I recommend taking care of a couple of chores or errands each week.  Ask your mom if there's anything you can be doing to help her.  I guarantee there is, but she probably doesn't want to ask, for fear she'll be even more of an imposition.
We do simple crafts - coloring pictures, making construction paper chains, making tissue paper butterflies, etc.  Then we donate them to a local nursing home for the staff to use to decorate.  Around Christmas, we go carolling at the nursing home or other elderly residents in the neighborhood.  We also look through old photo albums - this brings back memories for my Grams and I have recently heard a few stories about the past that I had not heard before!
I try to use the time to learn. Jump online and see what resources are available to you in your area, what you can learn about dad’s diagnosis, even just the news. Use the free time to better yourself 🥰
It really depends on his interests and ability level.  My dad has almost zero interests so it's tough.

My dad is actually one step away from needing 24 hour supervision according to the occupational therapist that saw him.

But he likes exercising so when amazon zlexa tells him to go put on his tennis shoes and head to the great room to exercise.  He does it.  Alexa then turns on the tv and starts his exercise vid for him.  I play a tai chi vid I feel doesn't really have a risk of falling.  Other things he does on his own is word searches, read newspaper, watch tv though tv is getting harder and harder as his short term memory is so he forgets what he's watching constantly.  He can only pay attention to news and game shows mostly.

Actually alexa tells him to do many things so I can not pay any attention to him at all in the mornings.  He needs social contact though so in the afternoons, one of 4 caregivers comes in and goes on walks with him chit chatting along the way.  He likes to swim so we take him swimming sometimes.  When senior centers open up again, I'll take him to some senior centers as well.

We have painted together before and made gifts for family.  Ping pong.

He loves chores which feels really sad to me but hey, he can sweep while I play on my cell phone.  He desperately needs a feeling of usefulness so chores helps with that.
