Yep. My brother wanted to pull grandma out of skilled nursing and bring her home. Hire in-home care givers for a staggering 30k+ usd/month. It didn't matter to him since it would come out of grandma's bank accounts but luckily I am the Guardian, and I told him to pound sand. Completely inconsiderate of him to think grandma would want to spend her life savings this way, especially since she hated having other people in the house with her, and trying to find qualified caregivers right now is like finding a needle in a haystack.
You are exactly right. Chances are sadly that there will be more medical care in the future. blowing cash is just stupidity. You are to be a good steward of your dads health and wealth, such that he gets the care he needs and has the resources for the future. Esp if he has limited earning power. 

Proximity is a convenience to you folks, not dad. If its not that much closer then its a non issue and a wasteful concern. Dont base a decision on a star rating, base it on can Dad get the care he needs. Little amenities if thats the extra star mean nothing. You have every right to raise a concern. 

My Dad is old school and he will purposfully get the highest price of anything just to show he can. All someone has to do to sell him is pull that string. he often tells me he can afford it.. I tell him yes he can but he shouldnt be wasteful. get what will do the job and get a good price. That money that was wasted today, might be needed tomorrow. 

Best of luck,
You need to let everyone know, "Dad only has $XXX in savings. If we use that all up on this, then there won't be anymore left for later in his life when we really need him in nursing care. There are other places nearby than what $FamilyMember is mentioning.", then you look into the eyes of the family member to sustain your dominance.
Tell that family member that if your father runs out of money due to unwise financial decisions, he will then be forced to apply for Medicaid to pay for care and will have to accept placement in whatever nursing home accepts Medicaid and has an opening.  He will have limited choices on location.  Those four star rehab centers covered by insurance would be the smarter choice.
Sorry you're going through this. I am lucky that my brother and I are in complete agreement on finances.
Let your thoughts be known... however, a POA she can do what she wishes...

In the end if there is little or no money, she certainly can't get 5 star out of pocket care, but even Medicaid gives good basic care..- that kicks in after all assets are spent down.

besides that, in my humble opinion as an RN and some experience with elderly, no amount of  rehab will train a person to swallow properly... I'm not understanding how not swallowing is preventing him being in 'memory care' unless it is an 'assisted living' facility instead of 'skilled nursing' facility.. skilled nursing will take a person with swallowing issues
