Not a Medicare expert my any means…

From my understanding, that it really all that is covered for dementia. Typically Medicare covers 80% of costs and your supplemental insurance will cover the rest.

As a rule of thumb, Medicare seems to be more tailored to short term ailments to get you back on your feet so to speak. Example: if you go to the hospital and then need to go to skilled nursing for what ever reason, only 21 days are covered before you have to begin paying out of pocket.

Pro tip: don’t have a long term ailment on Medicare

Source: 35 y/o caregiver for my 70y/o father with dementia
I just went through this with my grandma. I *believe* Medicare covered 2 weeks for her stay in skilled nursing. After that we pay out of pocket for her room and board at skilled nursing, and hospice is covered by Medicare. If we had brought her home, hospice would have been covered by Medicare, but 24/7 in-home care comes out of pocket.

I hope this helps.
Just went through in-home hospice with my mother about 6 months ago. Medicare covered 100%. We were the primary care givers and hospice came by as needed or as requested by us for medical visits, bathing, social work, etc.
MIL was in a skilled nursing facility from 4/1/21-6/22/21. 
21 days were covered, and then she pays $187/day for the remainder of the 100 days. After that it’s 100% out of pocket.
I believe that the 100 day allotment must be tied to the period immediately following a qualifying hospital stay. In other words, you can't just go directly into a SNF from home and get coverage. It must be after a qualifying (non-observation) hospital stay. You should check on this.
Medicaid is what pays for long term care. Medicare pays for very little.
Yes. You are right. It does seem like not a lot is covered in long term care.thanks a lot for your help.
Thank you so much. This helps for sure. I have written the same in the article- so hoping it helps someone in need ❤️
Did you get 100% covered by Medicare? That's pretty great. So it was in-home hospice with you guys as primary caregivers. What plan was it?
That's what's going on with my mom right now, after a hospital stay.
That’s my understanding as well.
Yes, but if you don't qualify for Medicaid, you are left with no choice. :(
You need to start looking at Medicaid next. however there are pretty strict income and asset limitations for qualifications and not all facilities accept Medicaid. My FIL is in a nursing home that is payed 100% by Medicaid.
I don’t know the plan. My sister took care of all the admin tasks.
Ugh, hugs to you. It’s stressful and I’m sorry you’re going through it
I'd recommend talking with an elder law attorney if you don't qualify for Medicaid. Where I live in Indiana, they can set up a Miller's trust fund which can allow people to get on Medicaid that previously weren't able to. You can also talk to your local Agency on Aging to see if there are other options where you live.
I second 5hat suggestion. There are legal ways to be "poor" and yet maintain some wealth. Talk to an elder law attorney for best suggestions. 
I did as well. So thankful
That's wonderful. But yes, you are right. not everyone can qualify for Medicaid. :(
