The past 10 months have been the most stressful of my life. Grandma getting into skilled nursing helped so much, but before that it was sleepless nights, my depression ramped up by 100 including suicidal ideation, and the stress manifesting itself as health problems like stomach issues, headaches, and throat tightening. I was also really irritable and would lash out at people for things that weren't their fault. I don't wish this disease on anyone.
Yes.  I'm sorry.  It's important that you preserve your own mental health as much as possible.  Carve out at least an hour a day for self-care.  It's easy to get pulled into the dementia vortex.
I wasn't ever able to get any "me time" as Mom didn't show up with trying to help with Dad for ages, so I feel this. I'd mostly quit eating at one point, think I went a week without food a few times. But yeah, the anxiety is pretty common. As for the work thing, your Dad is basically your job, if someone's at you to find "real" work they need to be reminded they must take over then while you try and find a position, and keep doing it while you're working.
Yes! The stress has been making me horribly sick! The anxiety and panic have been getting so bad I even throw up sometimes. Tension headaches, elevated blood pressure, knots in the stomach, sleep trouble, and the shitshow in my head have been issues too. 

I feel your pain, and it's definitely normal to feel what you're feeling in this situation. Feeling anxious, depressed, helpless, afraid, guilty, exhausted, sleep deprivation—the list goes on, and it's hard as hell to turn the shitshow in your head off. The stress can have a pretty rough effect on a person's mental and physical wellbeing. It's downright brutal sometimes. 

I've been trying to take it one day at a time, keep myself distracted as much as possible, and pray a lot. All we can do is hang in there and do our best to make self care a priority. It's hard to be there for our parents (or anyone) if we're not looking after ourselves...easier said than done though, I know. 

I don't have much to offer other than an e-hug, but I hope it helps. \*hugs\*
Yes. The period between when my dad's dementia started getting really bad and when we moved him into a facility was the worst couple of years of my life. Dementia doesn't just ruin the lives of the patient, but it brings their families down in the process. I'm still recovering from and in therapy for the burnout and PTSD.
Yep, its normal. Anxiety is draining your soul. Me, im 63 been out of work a couple years taking care of Dad and studying for a better job when he is gone. Tbh I probably wont ever be able to find a job again. I cant just leave him on his own. Ive lost enough work time that even if I find a decent job will have to work until I die. So, I understand.

Now, what can you do? Do you need to stay unemployed to take care of your Dad? If so thats cool. Cant find a job in this economy? There are things you can consider. Caring for someone w/ dementia is stressful and at times maddening esp when youre young.

Google dementia and learn what you can. See what they say as far as how to handle them and how to deal with yourself. Anxiety is your system run wild. Its a defense mechanism and natural to have threats front and center, so  big animal doesnt eat you etc. But when you are placed in that constantly day by day you get anxiety and its your mind run amok. Start learning to control your head and heart.

Look at Stoicism, one teaching is to step back, step out of the situation and look at it objectively. See truth and then you can see what is emotion and anxiety. Then you know to hold the truth and dump the rest. 

Be stone...learn to be aware when you get triggered and the signs youre getting anxious, then turn to stone. talk to yourself and just let the anxiety go. Reinforce the good calm truth and let the bs fade. Like if you are a glass of water. It starts getting muddy with anxiety. Your positive thoughts are clear water pouring in. Your being stone and detaching shuts off the flow of muddy water and the glass becomes clear. 

[https://www.griefhealingdiscussiongroups.com/](https://www.griefhealingdiscussiongroups.com/)

has some great resources and is a great help.

WORK-what do you want to do? Do you have education? Training? What do you love to do? Take time for yourself every day, just for what you enjoy and immerse in that. 

Start working out, exercise both body and mind. 

Work again lol, make a plan. Youre out of work, what would you need to get back to work? If you will be out to care for Dad then make a plan to use whatever time you can to move forward. ALWAYS move forward. Even if just a bit each day. Read, exercise, write, paint, create, improve yourself body and mind.

SUPPORT-have family that helps? I dont know how far along he is or if you're the sole caretaker and how much is needed. You can talk to his doctor or family services about available help. Ins may pay for help to come in during the week. Dig for resources.

Im sorry you face this and esp young. No one on either end of it should experience this. But it wont go away. If you cant change Life then change how you deal with it. Take good care.
Yes.  About a year and a half ago I started experiencing serious physical issues, like fainting, jaw going numb, so light headed I stumble, memory loss ... so now I basically avoid her as much as humanly possible because I thought I was going to have a heart attack.  I'm 50, so that's within the realm of possibility.  She HATES that I don't spend every waking moment with her.

All I hear when I bring up my concerns to anyone is "her right to autonomy."

She literally thought we were building a wall out of wardrobe size moving boxes in the family room to "exclude her from the family."  She tried to give my friend a "brand new microwave that's in the garage," but ... this microwave does not exist.  She had a total meltdown when we moved her favorite kitchen chair from one side of the kitchen table to another (she can't spy on us from that side).  Only one doctor has taken my concerns seriously, the rest brush off her behavior.   She has reported to her doctors that she gets hives when she takes literally any antibiotic, which is patently FALSE.  The worst was when she accused me of stealing from her so her doctor called the police on me; she forgot she bought hundreds of dollars of Christmas presents online.  TBH, she was already mentally ill but her doctor shopping (not pill seeking but the refusal to accept accountability for her bad behavior) has got me to the point that I can't imagine a future taking care of her.
Is being stressed in this situation normal?  Fuck yes.

Sorry for swearing.  But... yeah, it is.

Right now, at this exact moment, I'm doing fine.  But tonight, tomorrow, whenever -- who knows.  There's a huge amount of stress that isn't understood by people who haven't gone through it.

Besides, pretty much everyone deserves a mulligan for the last year, even without everything you're going through.

Hang in there.  Come back here when you need help/advice.
Very much so. I lay in bed sometimes and my mind begins to wander, i get tense, heart beats, head throbs, and just can’t move from exhaustion but can’t sleep because my mind is going. Sucks
You got some good advice a few days ago. Did you try any of these things? If you don't change things nothing will change. Sometimes we have to go through the motions until we start to believe them. It's only after the fact that we can see it was a good idea. Wallowing on a message board looking for people to feel sorry for you is going to get you no where.

https://www.reddit.com/r/dementia/comments/o6ri8v/my\_dads\_dementia\_has\_fucked\_my\_life\_up\_any\_advice/
Yes. It’s the actual worst. Combined with miscarriages and I wonder if I’ll ever be happy again.
I hope you can heal.

My guess is that I am about a year away from being able to place my mom in MC. I honestly hope that I can recover from this, or even make it through. Absolute WORST time of my life too. Would not wish this on my worst enemy.
Hang in there just a little longer, then. If you can find a good memory care facility, you'll be able to at least escape the relentless 24/7 dementia vortex.
