Grandma was rejected from memory care when they heard about her behavior disturbances (refusing to eat, drink, take medication, yelling/hitting), and they wanted her to go to a geropsych unit to get on meds to calm her down. They said the success rate for the patient to calm down enough to be accepted into memory care is low but not impossible.

Luckily, she was already in a skilled nursing facility after a hospital stay, and skilled nursing accepted her since she was about to start hospice care anyways.

Geropsych might be the best option if that's available where you are. Until then, ask your dad's attending physician if he can be transferred to skilled nursing while you figure things out for him.
Lots of prayers for you and your father.  My friend is going through the same with her mother.  Some people are strongly stubborn and refuse to accept that they need help.  Plus everyone is scared about dying and being dependent on strangers.  It is so rough.  But bless you for trying so hard to do what’s best for a difficult person, it is the hardest kind of charity!
My mom is such a stubborn leo, she refuses any medical care at all. I've called an ambulance just to see if she might go for them and at least get ER Help, but the ambulance driver said she can refuse to go with them.. she wont take any meds and hasnt even been diagnosed yet! Shes had to go to the psych eval 72 hour hold thing 3 times. The first time I was trapped in my room  and she found an old machete at the bottom of her closet and was chopping down my bedroom door screaming my name, thinking I needed air and I couldn't breathe in my room.. she locked me out of my apartment and barricaded herself inside with a tazor and pepper spray... the cops had to kick in my back door with a small team of swat plus the Sargent... it is so frustrating.. 
I plan on fixing my car and seeing if I could get her involved at the local senior center but not sure how it will go .. I'll keep you posted on how things go ..
As one of the people here that works in memory care full time, I can say that he is likely not a good fit for memory care. Geropsych is likely the best place for him. One of the reasons memory care can’t handle people that are that far gone is the staffing and care levels. An average memory care unit has 2 staff member on site at all times (one CNA and one RMA) and access to a nurse. Typically once a person gets to the level of requiring full assistance for anything, they get transferred to skilled care nursing. In some cases, we get people that are extremely prone to eloping and/or medication refusal. When that happens, we have to get an additional staff member pretty much 24/7 so that’s 3 more people per day. Otherwise that person becomes a risk to themselves and other residents. In raw cost to the business that’s an average of about $12,000 per month in cost to care for one extremely difficult person. 

In a skilled care nursing home, there are additional layers of people to help tend to these kinds of situations. Only the nurse is handling medications, and CNAs are only providing care and assistance. That allows for more direct 1 on 1 care then with a memory care unit.
lol okay you can't just say "eloping" and not spill the tea.

I gotta know more!
I'm so nervous that my mom is going to get this way before they will even consider diagnosing her, and then no one will accept her.  She is also very tall, so I fear they will think her size makes her more dangerous.
Unfortunately hospice isn’t on the table yet, he is in his early 70’s. I think geropsych and skilled nursing are good options short term but I’m at a loss for long term.
Totally understand. I found what helps is telling the hospital that they are a danger to themselves and society and should not be released to their home. They seem to listen when you say things like that. Keep me posted, cheers
Eloping just means running away without any supervision. Not going to get married or anything :)
