My grandma literally kicked and screamed and was in 100% denial as well. I had to trick her into memory care. Four years later and she still says “I want to go home”, but she loves the staff and never wants to leave when I suggest an outing. 

Really, I’ll say it took her a few days to adjust to the memory care facility and she was very quickly relieved to have the care she needed. She wasn’t bathing at my house and wouldn’t let me help her. Being clean and comfortable made a big difference. The difference after one week was amazing and I was very happy with my decision.
I think you’ll need to consider working with someone who may NEVER agree - it’s common and understandable. 
Her brain is damaged and it will continue to deteriorate so with this in mind do you see how it may not be possible for her to come to a logical conclusion that yes she needs to leave her home, her safe place, for some old folks home?

For me it took my mother going into hospital then being examined over a 3 months period (kicking and screaming) before she was forced to go into a home. This is a common story - the trip to the hospital being the step before an aged care home.

Who has PA over her? Maybe speak to her GP or whomever was involved in her diagnosis
We moved both my Dad and my MIL into memory care or assisted living when they were no longer able to physically care for themselves.  We told both that they could live independently again when they could independently and consistently perform all of their "[Act Of Daily Living](https://www.kindlycare.com/activities-of-daily-living/)".  Of course, that was never going to happen but it allowed them to believe that they were working toward a goal.  Now, when my MIL declares that she wants to get out I just point out that she can as soon as she can walk or move her wheelchair around on her own, get herself to the bathroom, and dress.
Can you have her doctor prescribe SEROquel? It is a medicine that helps Alzheimer's patients calm down a lot so there is less kicking and screaming. Also, is this level of anger and violence a really sudden change? I would get her tested for a UTI.

My grandmother also doesn't believe there's any problem with her memory at all. She takes the pills because she had frequent UTIs earlier and was prescribed antibiotics, and she accepted that she needs such pills to prevent those and so she takes the meds.
How did you trick her?
I have PA and have been working with her GP and Neurologist. 

Unfortunately, she'll need to sell her home in 1-2 yrs to pay for everything. So, I was hoping that she might calm down before then.
The Act of Daily Living link you provided was incredibly helpful. Thank you.
That’s a great idea, thanks.
The memory care staff worked with me to tell her she had a hair and nail appointment (that she desperately wanted/needed) and she walked right in for the appointment. They whisked her away and I went camping in the mountains for a week. Pure bliss.
