If he can afford to live in a memory care facility it is 100% worth it. Being a caregiver would mean giving up your own life for an unknown amount of time. My dad is in a memory care facility and they are equipped to give him the care he deserves. It was absolutely heartbreaking to move him out of his home but knowing he is safe and as healthy as he can be in his state is a huge weight off of the family. Having a loved one with dementia is an absolute nightmare. Sorry you are going through it.
If he’s really embarrassed, let him wear bathing trunks to shower. Once he’s more comfortable you can approach the idea of no clothes. I agree with the other comments about memory care for your grandpa. It’s a lot to caretake 24/7 which is what I do.
Please consider carefully before going feeding tube route. Studies have shown they do not improve quality of life, rarely extend life, and there is a significant risk of aspiration pneumonia. In addition, some dementia patients will pull the tubes out repeatedly.
When you move back home, will you be willing and able to provide 24/7 care, or will you need to work and have a life of your own? Just wondering because he may need care like that and a live-in facility may be what’s best for him.
My mom doesn't eat. She's still pretty early stage, so we needed to find a solution that would allow her some independence. Things that are warm and soft seem to work well. We also discovered that she has a sweet tooth and will eat anything sweet - so we look for sweet things that have at least some health benefits. My dad buys the sugary oatmeal packets - fruit and cream or similar - that sound healthy, but are full of sugar and really sweet. Mom likes that they "have fruit" and are therefore considered healthy in her mind. She can also make those herself, and we've learned to look the other way when she cooks them in the microwave with OJ or Pom juice instead of milk.  They buy pre-cut fruit - watermelon, strawberries, etc - so she puts those on top of her oatmeal sometimes. 
Lunch is really hard. Like your grandfather, she's supposed to be drinking those shakes with her meals, but will drink them instead of meals if we let her. We do leave out fruit (raisins, apples and bananas seem to be best) and she'll snack on that, usually if no one is looking. And my dad will leave out cookies or something similar that she'll snack on during the day. Sometimes, if we leave them out, she'll eat a protein bar (the RX ones are soft) because she thinks those are healthy. And sometimes smoothies work - and they're fantastic vehicles to hid a ton of calories - but they've recently been considered "too cold" so we're looking for other ideas. 
For dinner they eat the same thing a lot. Frozen pizzas (one with a soft crust for her), frozen pot pies, etc. My sister also has them over for dinner once a week and, because that's a social occasion and it would be rude not to eat there, they can usually get her to eat a full meal. It's tough - good luck!
I’m a caretaker as well. I’m going to talk around with my family about the idea of me stopping work to care for him.
Thank you for that advice! My goal is to avoid the feeding tube all together. I’m thinking if I am there to prepare meals and remind him to eat that he would gain weight. Plus the nutrition shakes with meals.
He lives alone right now, so we’re thinking about seeing how he does when I move in and work 8 hour days.
I will have to work yes but I won’t have a life if my own. My attention would be my grandfather
The problem with most things is that he won’t use the stove, microwave or oven. He will eat cold food that is supposed to be warmed up. He also is very concise about what he eats because he used to choke very easily
Mom loved her sweets! One thing you need to be aware of is blood sugar!
Some states compensate family members for elder/disabled care. Maybe that’s something you can look into.
He lives alone now, but he’s not managing on his own. If you work 8 hours, sleep 8 hours (not likely) and focus on him for 8 hours, you have no time for yourself. And what about income for you? And what about your missing years of career growth and your missing years of being YOU. You may be a carer now, but you are a carer who gets to clock out and have a life. It’s not the same. Imagine doing your current care job with no vacations, no breaks, no nothing.
Thats really hard. I’m sorry you’re dealing with this! If it’s helpful at all, we’ve tried all of the opposite tricks of most dieters. Cream and sugar in coffee, whole milk instead of skim, milk or Gatorade instead of water, mixing butter into absolutely everything, etc. There’s still days that she gets well under 1000 calories though. At this point I’m just hoping that the days when she does eat more balance those days out.
I will definitely look into that! And maybe I could work part time for a few hours in the afternoon when he usually is at my aunts house for dinner! I want him to keep up that daily tradition cause it gets him out of the house.
For him i would be willing to do it.
I wish I had a "you've been raised well and are an awesome person" award to give you here.  Proud of you.
Thank you. I just need him healthy for the rest of the time he’s with us. Well physically health, and as mentally healthy as we can keep him.
