Omg, I feel like I could have written your post about two years ago.  My mom was a hoarder too, had two houses full of stuff, not a single fully functional toilet in either house, only one fully functional sink between the houses, had gone into bankruptcy a few years before everyone started to realize she had dementia.  It was all bad.  

Getting a diagnosis is important.  My moms regular doctor diagnosed her, but then also told her she couldn’t drive anymore, so then she refused to go back to that dr and I had to find her a new one.  

One thing I have found it helpful to do is to type up a letter to the doctor and hand it to the receptionist when we arrive for the appointment.  That way I can say all the things to the doctor that he/she needs to know about Mom’s behaviors without her hearing.  I always just say “here’s some paperwork I need the doctor to take a look at before our appointment today.” For my mom, that works and she doesn’t question what the “paperwork” is about.  But depending on your mom you might need to find some other way to communicate with the dr.  A phone call or a fax, etc.  I’ve also done telemedicine appointments where I spent most of the time talking to the dr myself without mom knowing and then just included her on the last few minutes of the call.  That’s something I never would have thought of doing except…COVID.  

Someone else mentioned getting an elder law attorney to help you figure out how to pay for her long term care.  This is a good idea.  You said something about your mom giving her inheritance to her sister and this is concerning.  If you are in the US and you need to apply for Medicaid for you Mom’s long term care there is going to be a 5 year look back at all of her assets and that money she gave away might cause you problems.  Talk to someone who knows about this stuff to help you figure that out.  

You might have a long road ahead of you.  I started small a couple years ago, getting her banking in order, getting the diagnosis, taking her grocery shopping, but then eventually had to quit my job to clean out her two houses and get her moved to a safer place.  It has been a long ordeal, but she has been in temporary but safe living situation for 9 months now and we are hopeful about getting her settled in long term care this summer and that will be such a relief.  

Gather your support network and your Mom’s network around you.  Call on the siblings, the cousins, the church, the friends, whoever is around and who cares.  This is probably the time of your life where you are going to need support like you never have before.  

But, on the flip side, I have also found this journey to be somewhat cathartic.  Mom’s decline has finally given me a way to help her and to improve her living situation in a way she never would have let me before.  It’s also brought me closer to family members who I hardly even knew before, and that has been a really great thing as well.  

Haha, sorry if this has been sort of steam of consciousness.  I’m sort of still in the middle of all this myself…though hopefully on my way out soon.  I just keep telling myself…”the only way out is through.”  I say it over and over.  My kids and husband say it over and over.  We are getting there.  You will too.
First of all, I'm sorry this all landed on you. Second, symptoms are going to vary depending on the type of dementia and the person, so it's hard to give you an exact list of what to look for. Is she forgetting things more than usual? If she drives, is she getting lost on familiar roads? (If you don't live with her you might still notice that it's taking her longer to get places or not getting there at all, just turning around and going back home, which could indicate she's getting lost.) Increased anxiety is another common symptom, as is paranoia or other delusional beliefs, so keep an eye out for agitation, any mention of people watching her house or trying to break in or steal her things, etc. Finally, how is she with tasks? Is she still making herself meals or struggling with that? Is she wearing appropriate clothing, or is she wearing weird/random things that don't fit the weather or occasion? Has her grooming gotten worse?

As for what to expect if it is dementia, expect that she'll start off needing reminders to do things like eat or dress or take her meds, then instructions, then hands on assistance. Expect that she'll grow increasingly unable to stay alone and increasingly likely to damage things or hurt herself as her cognition gets worse. Depending on how she is physically, she may be a fall risk, especially in a cluttered house, so you'll probably have to clean up her house and/or move her eventually. (Also, clutter tends to lead to more confusion and to trigger delusions, like believing there's a person in the house because they mistake a pile of laundry for a person, so be careful of that.) Eventually she'll need 24/7 care.

For testing, you could start with her general physician, but a geriatric neurologist is your best bet, if you can get her to one. People with dementia tend to pull out the stops to act "normal" in front of doctors, so make sure you find someone who recognizes the need to keep her there for a longer assessment - long enough for her to get mentally tired and be unable to maintain the facade.

Lastly, I'd suggest contacting an elder care attorney to a) figure out how to pay for her care and b) figure out what you need to do, legally, to be able to move her into a facility against her wishes. I'm very concerned about her staying in her house as you describe it - that's a bad living situation for a healthy person, much less one with dementia, and is likely to make it a lot harder to care for her effectively.
Thank you so much. I had to take a couple days to digest all of this before replying, but I really appreciate your help.

She's so bizarre in her living situation and does such mental gymnastics to justify the hoarding and stay where she is that it really hadn't occurred to me that it could be more than just the hoarding until the last year or so.

The suggestions for getting information to her doctor without her knowing are really helpful. I will remember them. 

She thankfully has some resources available for care, though not a lot, and her mismanagement of her money is eating up a lot of her monthly income. The house she insists on living in is way too expensive for her budget even outside of all the hoarding issues. However, her inheritance was two lots of land that my aunt convinced her to sign back over to her (the story behind it is tldr and isn't super important for this)  and not actual money, so that might not affect care options as much. But it allowed us to convince her that she's not making good decisions with her things and get POA to help out with some of it. She is enrolled in Medicare.

I did place a call to APS over the conditions in the house and because my autistic sister lives with her, and the state of it is much worse than I was expecting when I talked to her. I am going to try and get her into a neurologist soon, too, as she had an issue a few years back that needs follow up and I figure that's a good excuse to push her into going. 

I understand what you mean. I've just been sitting here for years watching it all get worse and worse, and knowing that it will eventually get REALLY BAD, and unable to do anything about it, but at least now I can do something for it, and if it is dementia, she really does need me to step in and take care of her now, vs. it being me leaving her in a situation she created and wants to be in because of hoarding.  


Thanks again.
>so then she refused to go back to that dr and I had to find her a new one.

So ... what happens when they get a diagnosis and they really are unable to care for themselves?  I feel like this is important?  I'm going through somekthing similar with my mom's doctors and I'm at my wit's end.  I don't think she's had a formal diagnosis but I think that's because she's sneaking around and doctor shopping, like you said your mom does.
Thank you for your response. It took me a couple days to gather my thoughts together after everything. I'm not sure she's eating properly for sure, and we've had several incidents in the last year or so where she's done things we know she knows how to do utterly wrong and dangerously and not ben cognizant that she was (big example being she was trying to change a car tire and had trouble and called my husband. He came to help her and found her lying under the car to look at the tire with it improperly jacked up. He dragged her out from under it because he was afraid it would collapse on her.) 

She seems to have no concept that she's almost 70, to be honest; trying to do physical things that she should know are beyond her. She was house sitting for me over Thanksgiving and locked herself out of the house (in fairness to her, it is easy to do. When we bought the house it had doorknobs on the outside doors that are always unlocked on the inside for fire safety, so you can open the door when it is locked but not realize it is locked until you try to get back in). Instead of calling for help from the neighbors or trying to move the cinderblocks out of the way (our dog digs under the gate so we have cinderblocks there to block her) she *climbed on top of the air conditioner over the fence and onto the garbage can* to get out of the backyard. Doing this twisted one of her ovaries, resulting in blood pumping into it but not being able to exit the organ. This happened on the day we were coming home, so we found her lying in the back of her pickup truck in extreme pain and had to force her to go to after hours care, which immediately sent her to the emergency room (where she wouldn't go when I tried to push her into it). She had major surgery and a hospital stay as a result of this.

I guess I feel like a dummy for not making the dementia connection earlier, but she's been weird and mentally ill regarding her living situation and her items for a long time. I only see her once a week or so at my own house, so I don't really see any of the every day deterioration.

She had an unexplained neurological incident some years ago (maybe five now?) that they initally thought was a stroke but wasn't, but they never figured out what it was, and she never went to a neurologist for follow up despite me pleading with her to for years. I have requested her records from the hospital from it, and once I have it, I'm going to make her an appointment with a neurologist and tell her it's for follow up on that, but also see if I can speak to them about possible dementia while she's there.

Sorry, I've ended up writing a book on this. I probably should have seen it sooner, but she's refused all help for a long time.

Conditions in the house are bad enough that I did call APS yesterday. If she won't let me help her and she's not mentally sound, we need to do something so she can get the care she needs.
Is she letting you or someone else be part of her doctors appointments?  You really need to at least take her to her appointments and find a way to communicate with her doctors to let them know what is going on….even if she won’t actually let you come back to the exam room.  

Once you get that diagnosis, and even before then if you can, try making baby steps to make her living situation safer.  You might not be able to convince her to move into assisted living or in with a family member right away, but you might be able to line up a neighbor to knock on her door and take her a sandwich every day.  Start small.  

Also, at some point you have to start to realize that your moms version of reality is no longer lining up with actual reality, and at this point youll have to start playing games to help her make the moves that are in her best interest.  You can call it “little white lies”, you can call it “letting her experience her own version of reality”. Whatever helps you sleep at night…but the bottom line is that you’ll have to start making decisions behind her back, and you sometimes have to bend the truth or omit certain details to help her make the moves that are in her best interest.  

For example, I didn’t tell my mom when it was moving day last fall, after I cleaned out one of her houses without telling her.  Instead I said, “hey, let’s go check out your other house today and see what we still need to do to get you moved in over there”. We took the dog.  I had family lined up to visit the new house to distract her.  I had everything she needed there like clothes and toothbrush already.  I told her I was staying the week to help her get the house ready to move in.  By the end of the week, her memory being what it was, she was telling me “I’m so glad I moved to this house!”  We just kind of skipped moving day altogether.  

I don’t know if any of that helps.  Good luck.  Everyday is a new adventure.
Don't beat yourself up about missing the signs. I think everyone does it, without fail. It always starts out so subtly that you can dismiss the signs as normal aging or depression or anxiety. Besides, none of us want our relatives to have dementia, and it's only human to have trouble seeing something you really don't want to see. So don't kick yourself too hard.

I think calling CPS is a good move. I wish you luck and whatever peace you can find. Feel free to PM me if you ever need to talk - I'm kind of on the other side, with my dad in the later stages of dementia and in a facility now.
We moved in together almost two years ago (sold two houses, she wasn't already living here).  She knew she needed help, but she doesn't want accountability.

I made a big tactical error early on, so she blocked me from talking to pretty much any doctor.  I still call and give them information about what's going on with her, but they can't tell me anything.

You know those huge wardrobe boxes for moving?  We had quite a few of them and I wanted to use them as Halloween decorations so, because it was kinda damp outside, I put them in the family room.  She thought I was literally building a wall to "exclude her from the family."  Out of dirty used cardboard boxes.  I've never seen her like that before.  She was inconsolable, crying and practically screaming at me.

So ... I talked to my doctor about her behavior, mostly because the stress from living with her was really getting to me, I was having some pretty awful physical issues.   Well, he IMMEDIATELY said it was early dementia.

So she and I went to a doctor visit and I started to tell them how much she was drinking - two bottles of wine a day - that she thinks she's allergic to all antibiotics (she picks them up but doesn't take them so she stays sick for weeks), and the thing with the moving boxes.  I barely started telling them about the moving boxes and she kicked me out of the visit.

Last January, she told her doctor something that made them call the police saying I was abusing her.  I still have no idea what she told them because she won't tell me and her doctor can't tell me without her permission.  From what I got from the police (!!), she said I don't allow her in the kitchen (which is literally impossible to do even if I wanted to) and that I'm stealing her money (which I'm not and I can prove).  The police pretty much just rolled their eyes and left but now I'm terrified every time she goes to the doctor.

A couple weeks ago, my friend was over and said he needs to replace his microwave.  She told him he could take the brand new microwave that's in the garage.  Only ... there is no microwave in the garage.  She argued with me about it.  She insisted he take the imaginary microwave.

I think she's had either borderline PD or NPD since forever, but there is a ton of new behavior.  I agree with my (elderly btw) doctor that it's early dementia but OMFG every time I bring up that she could have dementia, her doctors immediately assume I just want control of her money, because she's been in there saying god knows what.

I'm totally frustrated with wanting to help her but being so powerless and weak.  She's definitely not at the stage where I could trick her to do anything, unfortunately she is a control freak so I think tricking her might really piss her off.  And she is crazy unpredictble when she feels threatened.
Thank you! I am feeling very guilty about the call even though I am sure it was the right thing to do. But maybe it will mean she finally gets the help she needs, too.
Oh geez, that’s all nuts.  So her doctor is actually doubting you about the dementia?  That’s crazy.  Weird.  Honestly though, with your mom living with you, you probably have her in the safest situation possible for the time being.  Though it’s got to be incredibly draining on you.  Is going to a different doctor an option?  Maybe a neurologist?  Also, do you have a POA? you probably better do that while she is still with it enough to sign if she will cooperate.  Have you talked to anyone from adult protective services?  I had some conversations with them early on and they were helpful in helping me understand my options and  finding out what resources might be available to us.  Also, in your case with you mom’s accusatory behaviors, it might not hurt to get them in the loop?  I’m not sure.  My mom never did the accusing thing so that’s not something I ever had to navigate.  A lot of it with my mom was just a waiting game…waiting until she had declined enough to cooperate with the next step. But if you feel like your mom is in danger or if you get to the point where you just can’t handle the caregiver role you are in, and you need a way to force her into long term care, you can go for guardianship, but that is a whole process and I doubt it’s easy.  I sort of looked into it way back at the beginning, but it ended up not being necessary.  Yikes.  I feel for you.  Sounds like you seriously have your hands full.  I hope you have some good people in your life you can lean on for emotional support.  Feel free to dm me.  I’m really sorry you are going through all this.
Everything you're saying is helpful and I appreciate it.

I overheard a phone call she had last week, it sounds like her doctor referred her to neurology.  She's been a hypochondriac her whole life, but it sounded like she didn't ask to be referred and she sounded nervous about making the appointment (she usually jumps at the chance for doctors to pay attention to her).  So I think she may know something is wrong but is avoiding dealing with it.

Does it ever reach a point where they have to tell someone besides the patient that the patient has dementia?  I feel like if someone has limited capacity they could defy HIPAA.  Is that when adult protective services steps in?

About the same time we moved in together, she had been seeing a doctor regularly.  That doctor, however, demanded she take an allergy test because of her reporting allergies to all antibiotics.  She changed her story on that a couple times and still refuses to take antibiotics (tbh I can't tell you what the outcome was), but more importantly she refused to see that doctor again.  I don't think she's seen the same doctor more than 1-2 times since the beginning of COVID, that's one of my biggest hurdles because it's new eyes every time.
Is there any other member of the family that she trusts enough to grant POA? You can grant medical POA and financial POA to different people if you want to assure her and her doctors that there is no conflict of interest.
It's just me and my kids.  She nuked all the other possible bridges.
