My mom’s move to assisted living was very abrupt and pretty much unplanned for, so I don’t know how helpful I’ll be for you.

The biggest questions should be about finances: is it a facility that will accept an elderly waver when their finances run out or will they need to find a new place to live? 

You’re definitely going to want to get an itemized list of what their fees are. And while searching for a place for my mom, I learned that some facilities charge extra fees for needing to check on their tenants at their request (mom has a little “life alert” style bracelet with a button that she can push to page the staff that she needs assistance). Some places will do it every time they push the button, other places will do it after a certain amount of button pushes a month.

Your parents are obviously going to be downsizing, so helping them make sure they have what they need and want to have with them that also makes sense for a much smaller space may be difficult. It’s all about safety inside their apartment. 

I would also suggest not keeping things with them that are super valuable. I don’t know how reliable the source is, but apparently my mom’s facility did have an incident of thievery from the staff. However it could have easily been another resident and the initial tenant just forgot to lock her door before she left. The biggest thing that has gone missing from my mom’s apartment was her laundry basket. Apparently the staff took it with her laundry one day and just never returned it. So now she has a new one with her name and room number written all over it in sharpie.

Otherwise, be prepared for them to take time to adjust to the change and obviously want to return home. Just keep on reminding them that they’re in a safer environment with people who are trained to help at all hours of the day, which is more than they can say about being at home. 

And also be prepared for the potential of your mom to have a sudden decline. The change in environment might be jarring for her. My mom did well for the first year. And then covid happened and I wasn’t able to get in to see her for 6 months and the only time I’d see her would be when I grabbed her mail/exchanged medication boxes or doctor’s appointments. The decline was drastic; they’ve finally loosened up the visiting restrictions now, but she’s definitely a different person now.

I wish you all the best of luck with this new chapter!
I don't know how to say this gently, but if any part of you fears that she will be denied entry into an assisted living because her dementia is "that bad" (my words for my mom's situation), please reconsider placement in a higher level of care facility.

When we viewed places with my mom, I was so overwhelmed with her making sense, not falling down, or having a breakthrough seizure while we toured that I cried at home afterwards.

My mom was perhaps too far into dementia when we placed her at one. She only lasted a year before another stay in rehab after a fall/seizure finally pushed us into a skilled nurse facility.

Not to say you're in that position, but please be mindful of how you're feeling about her interview with the facility. Again, I don't mean any harm, just less emotional pain in the long run.
Thanks for the tips. Sorry to hear about your mom's decline. COVID was not kind to folks in nursing homes for so many reasons. But at least you can visit regularly again.

My mom broke her foot mid-COVID and had to spend Christmas and New Year's in a rehab facility because she kept forgetting to not walk on her foot and kept aggravating the break. Half of the time I called her she was hysterical because she couldn't understand what was going on during those times. So I'm pretty nervous about this move, but at least my dad will be there most of the time to help reassure her and be a constant for her.
I'll also add that in our experience, most of my mom's falls were because she forgot her walker,especially on her walk to the bathroom. When I asked the facility why they can't be more on top of her about using her walker, the said that that requires a higher level of care.

It's like having a landlord who can help you to your food and walk you to the bathroom at night if you have a history of falls, but the resident has to be the one to ask. They didn't help unless prompted.
Thanks for your thoughts. What a hard thing to go through.

I will be sure to ask the facility about this. I believe they do have higher levels of care available so I'll see what that transition normally looks like. Thanks again.
