At this point it is now a liability issue.  If his license is expired and he gets into an accident, the injured party could pretty much take him for everything he has. Even if he has insurance, it will not cover an unlicensed driver. This is the approach I had to use with my parent. Being totally destitute was not an acceptable outcome for them, so they begrudgingly  surrendered their keys. If your father doesn't want to bankrupt himself, that might be the best angle to play.
My stepdad’s kids borrowed his car for several months while he was waiting for tests and their results . They were very creative in their reasons for needing it. 

You know you need to get him off the road. You would never forgive yourself if he killed some neighborhood kid
If you can, talk to your dad's doctor.  The doctor has the authority to suspend his license if he is physically or mentally incapable.  

Mom had her license suspended by her doctor.  She was pissed about it and blamed my sister, but as she was mentally incompetent to re-test and regain her license, she now barely remembers driving.
I just took the keys for both vehicles to my house. He can drive his Kawasaki side by side over (and does beginning at 6 am about 5 times each day). Just this week he asked where his keys are and I said your provider will drive you to town Saturday to buy groceries. He argued and I said I am sorry but I need to go.    He is 95. I am sure we will argue about it all the way. We pay a person $10 hour to come over and take him to the store and to cafe for a cheeseburger. Social stuff. 

OP, getting involved w finances and getting a POA signed is pretty important.
You can’t….doesn’t he have to have an eye test when he renews his drivers license? You could call the cops on him…tell them about his vision problems. What is your plan when he can’t drive anymore?
Physically take them away. We did this to gramps. He couldn't stop us, so we just did it. It also put a stop to all his wannabe hard-ass stories from Korea.
I wonder how quickly he would figure it out if you just disconnect the battery?
We contacted my MILs doctor and had a long conversation with her (the doctor).I had been very adamant with my wife and BIL that it was time (they were never in the car with her driving) and all conversation with MIL did not go over well. The doctor was someone MIL respected so it was explained that her macular degeneration was to the point where it was time.

The previous year after her dr appointment needed to renew her license she had actually gotten in a car accident that totalled her car (on the way home from the appointment) Also she admitted to me that she was no longer able to tell what colour the lights were so it was actually long overdue to give up her license.
I know you are out of state, but if you could secretly get under the hood of his car, you could easily disable his car. 
Locate a fuse box. Pop it’s top off. Usually the inside of the lid will tell you what all the different fuses are for.  Look for the starter fuse. Pull that fuse. It might look like a black cube. It might be hard to yank out because it hasn’t ever been pulled.  Stick it in your pocket. Put the lid back on. Leave no finger or hand prints on lid or hood.  Don’t get your hands dirty either!  
Of course, not all cars are the same. But this will work on a lot of them.
Call his insurance company and explain the situation. They will refuse to cover him.. however, you might want to wait until you actually remove his keys or disable his car...

My mother is 88. last year she was still driving at 87. My brother and I didn't think she was safe. A sister thought "nothing happened so far; let her drive"..I took her to the doctor for a flu shot and beforehand, i explained that we wanted her checked for driver safety.. he recommended that she not drive anymore. 

She still refused to stop driving. She claimed God is on her side and won't allow her to have an accident. She will stop when she knows it's time...She had more than one set of keys, so my brother disabled her car... Her battery and cables were so corroded, he couldn't disable it that way, so he removed a front wheel.

Her car was 40 years old, had a rebuilt engine, leaked when it rained, was dull, on and on, but it was her car, her symbol of independence. She learned to drive in her 30's...

Turns out a brother in law took over the car, we transferred the name to his and he drives Mom around in it from time to time..

Perhaps you could disable the car in some way... or lose the keys...
We had to do this with my grandparents. My papa had dementia and could no longer drive so my grandma did, but she was also developing dementia. One day she pulled out into traffic on a two-way street without looking and caused a big accident. My mom had been trying to get them to stop for a long time and that was the final straw. 

I hope you are able to stop before he gets into an accident. I like the suggestions that everyone else here has given.
I went through this!!! It’s so hard. At the time thankfully he was already living with me. He rear ended someone (no injuries) but totaled both cars. We told him you will not be getting another car and driving is off the table. We complained for a while. Now he just pretends in short term and he’s saving his money for a new truck. 
Before the accident I tried to talk to him many times and was stonewalled every time. My sister and his daughter were against me taking it away. Once the accident happened and I showed them the police report, pictures of his truck and the scene where it happened (showing no skid marks) they backed me and we took it away. 
It sucked worrying everyday something would happen. I feel for you.
A lot of comments are advising you to remove the fuses or do something to his battery. If you do decide to go this route, just make sure you contact the mechanic he uses and let them know the situation and to keep the fabrication going.
You can send an anonymous letter reporting him to the DMV in his state.  On your next visit, you could put a Club on his car.
Speaking from experience: you can contact his doctor, who has the authority (in most states) to revoke driving privileges. Emphasize that if your father is at-fault in an accident, he’ll be sued. If he has car insurance, they’ll drop him and he’ll be personally responsible for damages, which can climb into tens of thousands. If there is a fatality, this can get messy and very, very expensive.
I was lucky. I live with my dad. And he kinda knew he shouldn't  drive and we only had the one car. So I took both sets of keys and he never really asked to drive.   

You could call aps. And they will kind of force his hand. You could arrange to get emergency  guardianship. 

One of you might have to move inbwith him.
That is a fantastic idea. Thank you!
Exactly as you say, it's a question of liability, and who will be financially responsible when (not if) he has an accident. My dad is 85, had an accident last Christmas and wrote the other car off (no one injured). In his case he still had a valid license, but he did not have insurance because he's "never had an accident before". The insurance company came after him for $19,000. My husband and I had to put a hardship case forward, which involved showing all his finances and all his expenses. In the end we got the debt excused, but it was no mean feat and took a lot of work on our part. The only upside was that the accident scared him so much he finally stopped driving, and we now take him everywhere he needs to go. But at least his food shopping is delivered straight to his door, and his home carer takes him out to a shopping centre once a fortnight for his other shopping necessities.
What would you say to someone who's father does have their license current?
<<getting involved w finances and getting a POA signed is pretty important>>

This! We barely got me added to my mother's POAs before she was officially diagnosed with dementia. Do this as soon as possible if you haven't already.
He is already driving on an expired license. 

When he can’t drive anymore, he can take Uber, move closer into town so he can take public transit, or move closer to me or my sister so that we can help him. 

He doesn’t like paying for Uber, but he definitely has the money.
i removed the fuses from my grandparents car they can look in the hood and everything will look normal it just wont turn on or click no lights come on looks completely dead they think they broke it
My dad put a Club on my grandpa’s car because he refused to stop driving and wouldn’t give my dad his keys. That definitely stopped him.
I wish you the best of luck. Having just been through this, it will suck. They will mourn the loss of their independence and being able to do for themselves. Mine is still working through it, but taxis supplemented with family help has made it work.
Even with a current license the liability issue does not go away. If the aggreived party can prove the driver is "at fault" (at least here in the US), then they can be held responsible for damages (personal/property damage) in a civil suit, even if not they are not criminably liable. Since it's not criminal, there's no burden of proof that has to be met, it's pretty much up to the judge's decision. My parent did have a license and insurance, but kept getting into fender benders. Last thing I wanted was for her to get caught on camera/dash cam doing the wrong thing and innocently saying it was "all her fault".
So call the cops on him. They’ll be happy to take his keys away.
I've already tried that. I literally don't know what to do anymore other than just sit back & let what will happen happen. I've tried everything & my mom is in complete denial (she let's him drive all the time when they go places instead of driving herself, she just keeps her head buried in the newspaper). Like she'll admit somethings when talking w/o him but will never address them to him b/c he'll turn anything he does on to someone else & my mom's the same, so it ends up just them yelling at each other about what the other person does wrong.

I'm just done & at the point where I've been planning on completely leaving & getting things in order to do so. Then only sending money & they can do whatever.
My aged, confused mom got pulled over several times in as many days a while back. At the last one, I asked the cops to file a report, and (n=1, anecdote coming) Ohio State Highway Patrol officer said they had very little pull with the DMV, even though they would not let Mom continue from the stop -- I had to come back the next day to retrieve the car from the side of Rte. 30. I know this makes no sense, I'm just telling what happened. Maybe it's too much of a pain to do the paperwork, dunno. Eventually I had Mom's MD write a letter to the DMV, and that worked -- getting this was  a chore, too.  
Note that I'm a trauma surgeon and see (the results of) car wrecks all the time, and before this I thought the po' could pull licenses fairly easily. In this case, not so.
I consider myself lucky my parent has been at least compliant if not happy about the changes they are going through. I am sorry your parents don't see that you are attempting to give them the assistance they need. The only thing I can tell you about that is that it's not your fault and you can only help them as far as they are willing to accept help. I had to watch one parent refuse medical care and die the next morning because they refused the care, even though those around him pleaded for him to do so. The ambulance staff couldn't take him against his will and he died because of pride/stubborness. Sometimes you do the best you can and bad stuff still happens, but that's not your fault. You can only try your best. Accept that help is up to them.  

I'm sorry you're in that position. I very much understand and sympathize with you.
The cops took my dads license and wouldn’t give it back after he had a minor fender bender and he left the scene of the accident. No one was hurt thankfully. He tried for years to get it back but the DMV just failed him whenever he took an eye test or driving test. Maybe my state is tougher than yours….we were so relieved when they took his license because he wasn’t going to stop driving on his own.
Thank you. Yea, it's tough. I just don't understand why they're so averted to getting things done. They do it in their jobs & the organizations & stuff outside of work but when it comes to their personal lives, it's like they don't have 1 & treat it like shit. I'm not even talking about going out, just all the stuff that happens outside of say work & hobbies. They are glued to the tv.
