One of the kindest things someone once told me is that it is always going to hurt. Then I stopped fighting to get control, to feel better, to feel "normal." Once I accepted it was always going to hurt, that I will have to live with a big hole in my life, I eventually found a new normal. 

I'm very sorry.
 \*hugs\*

[https://www.griefhealingdiscussiongroups.com/](https://www.griefhealingdiscussiongroups.com/) was a great comfort when my Mom passed and continues to be. Even when we know. And we know what to expect. When it happens it becomes real and it touches us. In a way it will be a relief. he will be at peace. Stay strong and hold on.
I don’t have resources but I’ll say this: the part where he’s actually dying is different than the part where he was sick, the part where you found out he was terminal, and the part where you realized that the person you knew was gone and you’re dealing with someone different. So since this part is a different experience, one you haven’t been through before, it makes sense that there are new feelings about it. 

another thing: grief is a pausing emotion. It slows you down, so you can adjust to the new reality, one without the person you lost. You feel it in your body - it comes in waves. If you fight the waves they’ll build in strength and become overwhelming. BUT if you allow yourself to feel them (without restimulating yourself to keep feeling bad), each wave will fade out, and they’ll be milder than if you try to stifle them.  

(Last thing: South Park is silly but they say a lot of true things on the show - “I'm sad, but at the same time I'm really happy that something could make me feel that sad.”)

I’m sorry about your dad.
When my mom died, someone told me “You’ll never get over it but you will get through it”
Centerforloss.com
The Center for Loss has helped me with grief processing immensely. There are multiple books and many areas have groups you can work with.
You will get very familiar with the "time heals all wounds" expression.

It's also the long-awaited end of sufferings for your dad from that wretched disease. With his passing, it'll be relief for your mother and yourself. You will both get your lives back as selfish and taboo it is. 

My sympathies. 🙏
All I can offer is condolences to you and your family. I’m so sorry that you all had to endure this journey as it comes to a close. I’m so sorry.
He passed last night. Thanks for all your advice & kindness.
I am so sorry. You are not alone. My mom has dementia and its just getting so much worse lately. I dread this day. She is only 66 years old.
My mom died when I was 5 (I'm 32 now) and I still struggle with grief all these years later. My dad's dementia diagnosis 2 years ago sent me into a frenzy and I had a major depressive and anxiety episode. I started seeing a therapist and that made all the difference in the world for me. We talked a lot about grief as you can imagine that has been a big theme in my life. She actually helped me realize I had already started to grieve my dad.

Feel your feelings, and talk about it. Preferably with a therapist who can help you dig deep and find ways to cope. But if you're not comfortable or feel up to that, then bend the ears of your closest friends and family members. Don't be afraid to cry or yell or scream to yourself when things hurt or feel overwhelming.

It's not easy. It will never be easy. As someone else said, you may not get over it, but you will get through it. 

Outside of that, focus on the things that bring you joy and comfort. Indulge in self care.

Just don't bottle it all up. Even if your only outlet is Reddit. 

I'll listen. PM me if you ever need an ear to bend.
Absolutely this. The website has great resources, and Dr. Wolfelt has books for grieving any sort of relationship loss. I highly recommend the books. The grief workshops are also worthwhile (I used to lead some) because they help you give name to and process the myriad feelings that come with mourning.
My condolences
