Some people still visit and act as if they are visiting a friend because they (the visitor) need the comfort of seeing the resident. As long as the resident doesn't get distraught in my opinion its all fine! 

Some families stop visiting, as it is too hard to visit mom/grandma/etc and the resident doesn't recognize the child/grandchild anymore. Thats fine too imo. Taking care of themselves is fine. 

I do hate when family visit, the resident do not recognize them, and the family drills the resident on who they are. Every visit, every time, "dont you remember me? I'm Ann, your granddaughter!" "I was here last week, im Brad your son in law! why don't you remember!" because she has dementia, you're going to upset her. just sit and talk about peach cobbler guys. 

Whatever makes you and the resident comfortable is what is best for you two.
My grandfather died of Alzheimer's many years ago.

My grandmother visited him every day.  She brushed his hair, read to him, fed him ... he had no idea who she was.  It was a unique situation, as it was the early days of Alzheimer's and my family founded the town where the nursing home is.  Let's just say, no one would have dared abuse my grandfather (but they did have to tie him to a chair because he attacked the nurses).

I know it made her feel better, and really, it was only for her benefit that she went every day.  She'd visit with the other ladies at the home and it got her out of the house.  And she did desperately love him, they were married 50 years.

He had no idea who I was, either, but he called every little blonde haired girl who visited the home my name because that was his last memory of me.  It wasn't hard for me to see - even when I was 10/11 - that he derived no benefit from those visits.  It wouldn't have mattered one way or the other.
My boyfriend always tells me I'm visiting for me, not my dad. I don't know if my dad knows who I am but he stares at me a lot, so maybe? I go every couple weeks with my sister so we can talk while he sits. He isn't very verbal and when he talks he makes no sense. I also bring my small dog for him to pet.  I don't know if it makes a difference to him. I also want the caretakers to know we are involved in case anyone gets any ideas about stealing or treating him badly. At the end of the day, if I visit I won't feel guilty when it's too late. I guess it is for me not dad after all.
I have to say, as someone that’s worked in memory care for awhile, the ones whose relatives visit often tend to remember them better.
My grandma recognizes me off and on. It’s definitely gotten worse since covid and not being able to go in for over a year. 

Regardless, my visits now days are more of a wellness check. Just making a presence at the facility to make sure she’s comfortable and has what she needs. I’ll bring something I know she likes, like a piece of candy or stuffed animal, or show her some pictures. Sometimes she won’t wake up while I’m there, but it’s still good to drop in. I’ll also leave notes and cards or some fresh flowers.
My mom visits my dad about three times a week (I see him once a week when I am home, but don’t currently live in the same country). He doesn’t communicate much anymore but he seems comforted when he sees my mom. She’s probably the only person he really recognizes anymore. 

The visits don’t upset him but I do think they’re more for us. He doesn’t remember me or my siblings really, but I love being able to hold his hand. I talk to him. He doesn’t respond but he’s not upset either so I find it comforting. I know my mom does too.
We were lucky, my mom never completely forgot anyone that she'd admit, at least. She did seem to forget huge dramas that had been the theme of interactions with some of her siblings in the 20-30 years prior to her death. My aunt, who was married to Mom's brother, suffered from guilt by association because the brother was an absolutely awful human being. She wanted to go see mom in memory care but was afraid to stir up the anger and pain for her again. We convinced her to try and mom greeted her like a long-lost friend and talked and joked with her for a couple of hours. It was a gift, because the aunt had been a friend when they were younger before my uncle grew horns and a tail.

While visiting my mom in memory care I saw several instances of family members coming in to visit every single day with someone who had no idea who they were. A son who came to eat with his mom on his lunch hour because she ate better with someone talking with her through the meal. Two different wives, one who was dying of cancer herself who came in every day she could to be with her husband, even though he'd never acknowledge her presence. The other wife spent hours every day with her husband, following him as he wandered the halls, talking to him like a friend, talking to other patients and their families, she became a friend to the rest of us. She actually got a "job" in the memory care when covid started and the lockdown happened-basically she was hired to spend time with one of the residents who needed constant attention because he tried to wander and leave his room... her husband.  That lasted until someone from the health department heard about it and threw a hissy, even though she was completely isolated when she wasn't with him; her husband rapidly declined when she wasn't there with him and died less than 2 months later. The gentleman whose wife had cancer lasted 3 weeks after she died and she'd came to see him up until about a week before.  They may not know someone but they still know they're significant.
My mom still recognizes me and my sisters but sometimes confuses us. The grandkids she doesn’t recognize but remembers they exist as they are all 19-29.  We never send them alone. In context, with the mother present, she understands who they are and enjoys seeing them still.  She likes having visitors, regardless if knowing them.
I try to visit my dad in memory care often. He always smiles and thanks me when I visit, and we engage in brief conversations. Mostly we just sit and watch tv together but seeing him smile makes it worth it for me. I’m not sure what benefit it has in his mind but I personally benefit from going to see him. He still knows who I am btw.
My mom is still aware she's losing her memory and we are all VERY careful to never use the phrase "don't you remember?"  Because no, she absolutely doesn't remember.  We remind her to write everything down on her calendar, though.  We talk about peach cobbler.  And the houses where she used to live in our home town.  And where she lived in Alaska in the 50s.  And crack silly pun jokes because she still gets those :)
I also hate when people try to force my grandma to remember. I understand that it's upsetting for them to be forgotten, but it makes my grandma cry when they push too hard. She has looked at me a few times with confusion and has told me she forgot how we met. It hurts to be forgotten by someone I love so much, but it's not like she can help it.
My relationship with my mom is very good, but I've always been the independent, stand-offish type (I'm female).  I've very thorough, efficient, understanding and patient, but never have I been very attached.  I don't know how I will react when my mom no longer knows me, but I think I might go the self protection, avoidance route, which makes me a bit sad but I do need to practice self care.   I'm torn, that's why I asked for perspective.  Thank you.
Visiting with a family member sounds like a great idea.  You can catch up and not expect anything from your dad, which he can no longer give, and yet still be there in case he does have some awareness.  Thanks for the guidance.
Bringing your dog is a great idea. Being around babies/the types of animals they used to have as pets, seem to be one of the longer lasting "oh, it's a thing that makes me happy, and I know what to do!" type things.

My husband's grandma, even a month before she passed, would just light up around babies. It was so sweet, and brightened everyone's day a bit.
Makes total sense!  Thanks. 

Have you seen where visit were at all harmful?  Maybe just the ones where people pepper their loved one with "don't you remember?"
That's a good idea, to bring something she still knows she likes.  I like the pictures idea too, thank you.
How did you go about deciding to leave the country with your dad in his condition?  See, I don't want to live in my current area after I retire (really bad winters), and I may retire while my mom is still alive.  I can't even wrap my head around not being right here to guide this situation (I live an hour away from my mom).  I have two brothers in the same town as her, but as the only daughter, right now I do most of the doctor visits and just naturally lead any sibling activity (even though I'm the "baby") regarding mom and her care.
My grandfather had no concept of time and didn't remember any of us.  It may sound harsh to some, but I would go a couple times a month to make sure she's not abused and if it's too much for you, I know from experience there is no point in going, going didn't help/hurt my grandfather at all.
We did this with my mother where we could, especially with people who didn’t visit very often e.g. some cousins. She didn’t recognise  us but she knew that we were people she was happy to see. She could sit and enjoy the chat going on around her without feeling like she had to participate. Her speech got very bad so having someone else there took the pressure off everyone, and the visitors didn’t have to try to keep up a one-sided conversation.
I've seen a lot of the women carrying dolls like real babies. I want to get a fake pet for him too.
Those are the worst types of visits. “Remember who this is? Tell us who (cousin/aunt/niece) is”. Those tend to irritate them and make them sad. I would stick to telling them what’s going on in your lives. Maybe bring a scrapbook to go through old memories, even if they don’t remember them.
It was a really hard decision but I got an opportunity that I knew my dad wouldn’t want me to turn down. And when I moved he wasn’t in the same condition he is now. He wasn’t in a memory care facility, he was still living at home with my mom so it was easier. And I wasn’t planning on staying more than a year but then covid hit and I also met the person I’m going to marry so I stayed. 

I get that, it has to be really hard as the person who does all of the leading with her care. For me, my mom always did all of that so I guess I’ve had more freedom in that sense. Since he doesn’t speak anymore and is mostly staying in bed these days, I know there’s nothing I could really do even if I moved home. He doesn’t remember me. He’s been on hospice for 7-8 months and if there’s any major change I’ll be on the first flight home. But I think that decision is obviously situational and I can’t tell you if it’s right for you, just that it’s been okay for me. Also, remember you have to put yourself first too! Your mom would want you to be happy. 

I’m sorry you’re going through this, it’s really horrible. Grief counseling has helped me a lot as well - don’t know if that’s something you’re doing but it’s helped put a lot into perspective for me.
This seems like a good option? https://perfectpetzzz.com/
That is exactly what I want and the right price. Good work.
