I think the first thing to do is inform all immediate family who should play a role on such decisions. Like your grandma's partner, your mum, aunts, uncles, and cousins. Make a plan together. Start with the doctor's appointment. We had to take a neurologist appointment directly, where she ordered psychological evaluation and MR. 

When we had to take my grandpa, we made it clear to him. We explained everything, why we were taking him, what the possible outcomes are, times of the appointments, and the daily plans. He is a man who likes to control his own life greatly, so we assumed there would be resistance. To our surprise, there was none. He just said "is it not with age". We had to explain to him a few more times until the doctor visit.
Your grandma is old enough to see a geriatrician as well.  This person will give her the same memory test that the neurologist will.  Based on her score they will place her in a category of dementia - mild cognitive impairment, mild dementia, moderate, or severe.  The neurologist, however, can order an MRI.  This will enable he/she to identify the portion of the brain that is affected.  While that should provide more specific information for you in our case I found that it didn't.  The segment of the brain that showed atrophy and the related functions it affects just didn't correlate.  That said, I think it's good to have a baseline.  We have found that her geriatrician is a better source for her over all well being.  She focuses on socialization, exercise and nutrition, all important to those with dementia.  The neurologist asked me if I was looking for a cure.  I said, "No, I'd just like to understand exactly what is happening in her brain.  It will provide us with a baseline and will help us prepare for her future."  He just wasn't much help in the well-being side of care.  I also found that there are local sources for education through the local Alzheimer's Association.  It was good to attend a few of these to understand how to care for Mom and how to respond appropriately when she repeats herself or gets lost in her stories.
This is so like my mother.  She said "I am getting older, I might not remember as well because of that."
My wife has been getting forgetful over the past three years. CT Scans and MRI did not show any abnormalities in the brain.

Went to see a specialist who did the usual verbal numeracy memory tests but not the visual tests as my wife is blind. His conclusion was onset of dementia, most likely Alzheimer's. Further tests SPECT and PET scans using radioactive dyes. Plus further CT scans.

Results will be ready soon and we have another appointment with the specialists. These nuclear medicine scans will show activity in the brain, which bits are working normally and which that are not. The CT scan and MRI don't show these.

If you want confirmation of the diagnosis, you may consider asking your specialists about these further tests.

My wife's condition has been compounded by two bouts of shoulder surgery under a general anaesthetic, which can exacerbate dementia symptoms.
Grandpa was the same. When we wanted to get him tested he said, "there's nothing to test, I'm getting older."

Even after we got the diagnosis whenever he forgets or shows symptoms, he says "yeah old head doesn't work like the young." He forgets the diagnosis and that it is an illness.
