Well, I’ll tell you my experience though your mileage may vary. My father stopped recognizing me a few months ago but he kept saying that I was too old to be his son (I am 47 and he is 74). My thought was that his mental image of me reverted to a time when I was much younger. So I did a test and when he would get agitated or confused about where he was and needed someone he could trust I would put him on the phone with my brother or cousin and he had absolutely no problems there even though he doesn’t recognize either of them in person. Even today the hospital called me because he was having a delusion that they were trying to kill him and they asked if I could talk to him. He had no problem recognizing me as his son and called me by name several times. All of this is to say that you might have success if you switch to audio only calls.
You can tell him short stories about your experiences with him. You can tell him you love him. You can ask him about the people he does remember (your mom, for example) if he can hold up his end of a conversation - like, what was his kid (your parent) like as a child?

Then there are the old standbys - the weather where you are, the weather where he is, other small talk. 

It all sounds lame compared to what you used to have, but the purpose of these conversations is just to have him come away with a warm feeling, I think.
That’s very interesting indeed. Unfortunately even on an audio call he had no idea who he was talking to (but he’s like that with most people over the phone nowadays). 

Thank you for replying, I hope you continue to enjoy spending time & speaking with your father for a long time to come.
I hadn’t really considered asking about his past, mainly because I’m worried he’ll get frustrated not being able to remember. 

You’re right - it’s all about the warm feeling afterwards. All I want is to sit down with him and talk about the F1, or any sports we used to watch together. Even hearing him say my name would be something. 

Thank you so much for taking the time to reply.
My dad can remember stuff from his childhood through his 40’s right now. He can remember the name of the shop where he bought his first record player (and the cross streets!)

But I moved him into assisted living on Monday, and on Tuesday he forgot where he lived with me on Monday. 

What can you do? ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

Good luck with your granddad.
