Oof. My mum did this, but at all hours of the night. She'd walk in to the room where I was sleeping and put on the lights. If I locked the door she'd still try to get in. I think in her case it was honest to goodness curiosity. As the disease progressed and she got more and more unsure of her surroundings she investigated every room of her home. She also was super happy to see me most times she got into the room, like it reassured her to know who was in there. To some extent, I think separation anxiety is common

As to what to do... I'm not sure there's an easy answer. After locking the door for a while I ended up unlocking it and just letting it happen. Her jiggling the handle and trying to get in ended up being way more disruptive to my sleep than her just coming in, seeing me, and moving on with whatever she was up to. There is, paradoxically, a whole lot of letting go of control when you're living with a person who has dementia. I know that your privacy and for sleep are important, so it's a hard thing to let go of. It's hard to not resent losing sleep. You may have to adjust your parameters for what is ok. (Is he waking you up at noon? Maybe that's ok. If he's waking you up at 4am? Not so ok ...)

I'm unclear if you're his caregiver, but if your parents are there can you ask them to redirect him? Take him out for a morning stroll to give the household a bit of peace?

If he's consistently up early or up a lot in the night, it could be a doctor can help address his sleep needs? He might need a more active day to make him tired at night. He may benefit from some meds to help him fall and stay asleep.

One thing that I'll encourage you to consider.... I don't know if your grandpa hallucinates or if he will develop hallucinations at some point. For my mum, she'd often half remember things that she saw and didn't fully understand or had a strong feeling about. My mum's sister came and stayed with her for a few days so I could take a break. I have to think that something happened because shortly after that visit my mum started to see an angry man in the guest bedroom. The man would bark orders from the room and we absolutely were not allowed to go into that room or turn the light on afterwards. This isn't to say that this will happen with your grandpa, but just please do consider the possible impact of your actions. 

Good luck!
Google “dementia door cover” to find some murals that make your door look like something else like a bookcase. Maybe he sees a door and is curious to know what’s on the other side. If he sees a bookcase instead, he won’t jiggle the knob to see what’s on the other side.
Honestly, it's really hard to say why. We can only speculate. It could be just some kind hardwired routine into his brain, or it could be searching for something or someone. 

You're not being a baby at all, sleep is important! The sound of someone trying to open my locked door would probably give me anxiety, even if I knew who it was. Can you change out the door knob? Something a little sturdier, different shape maybe? If I couldn't figure out a way to stop grandpa from jiggling the door, I'd try to find a knob that doesn't make much noise.
Its difficult to not become resentful or irritated by some routines or compulsive behaviors of those with dementia, especially if it's daily. Being a caregiver in any format is exhausting and draining.

His behavior, like said above, could be part of an old routine. Long before you lived there. I had a resident once that always leaned far down while in her wheelchair and we were always afraid she was going to fall out. She would look like she was always grabbing for something. After about a month of us trying to figure out what it was, her family said that she used to pick cabbage as a child. So we figured out that she was trying to farm and garden once again. Your grandfather may be looking for outside.

Also, their brains can become more curious than before. The fact that he can't open the door may cause him to want to open it more. And he comes back to it to see if anything has changed. Feeling of loss of independence and control is really big with aging and general but especially with those with dementia. He may be looking for doors he can't open because he can't open yours. There may be a way to help redirect his morning routine. It would have to cause you to get up earlier for a while, but in the mornings before he can get to your door, maybe find a different door that he can open and redirect his curiosity, causing a new routine.

I know it is frustrating especially when it's someone you love and live with. I've worked with seniors all of my professional career of all ages and cognitive levels. I've even have had grandparents with dementia. It's important to find a group that you can talk to and with about the issues at home.
Yes. There are these things you can put on…oh let me show you re: https://www.walmart.com/ip/TANGNADE-Door-Knob-Safety-Cover-Child-Proof-Door-Knob-Covers-Baby-Safety-Doorknob-Handle/700699728?wmlspartner=wlpa&selectedSellerId=18988&&adid=22222222227455106912&wl0=&wl1=g&wl2=t&wl3=528767769078&wl4=pla-1333406203668&wl5=1024126&wl6=&wl7=&wl8=&wl9=pla&wl10=125210027&wl11=online&wl12=700699728&veh=sem&gclid=Cj0KCQjw9O6HBhCrARIsADx5qCTgGjFUf6LZqb_8rkompGgBdF4y7jBsSer_xo4GKx0XqmQRyGYLgkcaAsvNEALw_wcB&gclsrc=aw.ds
Like magnumthepi said, hard to say why he's doing it. Could just be wanting to go somewhere, like outside or to the bathroom, but getting doors confused. Also, at a certain point my dad stopped understanding how door knobs worked, would be unable to open a particular door, and would insist it was stuck (because he didn't understand that he didn't understand), so he'd keep rattling/yanking away to try to get it unstuck.

You could try changing the knob, or putting something in front of the door so he can't get to it, or putting a sign on the door like a stop or "NO EXIT" sign. On the assumption that he's just trying to get to the bathroom and getting lost, you could try putting up signage and night lights leading from his bed to his bathroom, so the when he gets up at night to pee he's less likely to try random doors throughout the house. Failing that, earplugs?

My dad did all kind of crazy stuff at night, so I get the frustration and resentment. Sometimes you can find a trigger for a behavior and remove it. Sometimes you can't figure out why but you can stop the behavior by adding obstacles. Other times they just do crazy stuff and there's no stopping them.
Yeah, my mom does the same thing at all times of the night. She’s so afraid that she’s alone in the house. She lived in this house for 41 years and she doesn’t know her way around anymore. So she will search every room until she finds someone. They are just so afraid. Everything is unfamiliar.
I know it bothersome but I think this is one of those innocent things I would just let happen because then you at least know where they are and what they’re doing. If you take away the ability to mess around with the door knob they might find another knob to mess around with like on the stove or something worse. I’d  just get some earplugs to put in when the knob jiggling starts every morning.   

As for why it’s happening, a lot of people with dementia do some thing like this. It Has to do with routines they’ve had in their life probably. Like some people want to go in every room of the house and open the blinds in the morning, and when they’re in a memory care unit they’ll try to do the same thing but those are peoples rooms. Also a closed door to some is both curious and threatening and they want to know what’s on the other side of it and every day they will go around an open closet doors and every door in the house to see what’s behind it.
you deserve uninterrupted sleep. if it's not a safety issue to let her do it, get one of those doorknob covers or door covers. ignoring the little things pile up, and make you grouchy on the other things.
I was just having a similar discussion with a family friend about this kind of thing. I feel your pain. My mother is constantly opening doors and jiggling the handles if they're locked, so I know how nerve-wracking it can be to listen to or be woken up by it all the time. 

I haven't tried the friend's suggestion yet (my mom is in the hospital right now), but a suggestion her family got that worked with her grandmother was putting big black doormats in front of doors they didn't want her messing with. It was explained to them that a lot of dementia patients will think the dark areas are holes, so they'll avoid them. It definitely sounds worth a try to me, and I hope it works.
Ever tried earplugs? Cause my grandma has been doing the same and I’ve been thinking of either headphones or earplugs
Could he be looking for the bathroom?
Maybe put a baby gate up at night a few feet away from your door to act as a barrier from him getting to it?
My grandma would try to grab those “books” 😭
this is what i came here for. i was gonna say i'm planning to buy one of these cause i'm tired of screwing my doorknob back in. eventually she makes it loose. good to know my idea will work :D
