I’m sorry that you are dealing with this. It is so very hard.  My sibling passed away around 10 years ago, and ever since then my mother literally wants to die. Doesn’t want therapy (doesn’t want to cry in front of someone & how do they know what she has been thru), and refuses to take any sort of preventative maintenance care, or see any docs. Currently her hearing in one ear no longer works (suddenly) and she has a spot on her eye that she refuses to see anyone about. Apparently it’s nbd (to her) and it’s just the rest of us that have to suffer with the consequences (shouting at her, repeating ourselves, etc) - again, apparently nbd. 

It’s so frustrating and, for the first 5-6 years guilt inducing, but I’ve washed my hands of the guilt. Begging, pleading and offering financial assistance for medical care had no impact. If she won’t be a participant in her own care, I will no longer allow myself to feel guilty about the outcome. That was a difficult threshold to cross over, but for my own mental health, I just can’t do it anymore. 😢

Take care. ❤️
I am also in a similar situation and I also wish I had a "normal" situation. But thanks to posts like yours, I feel less alone in this strange situation that I have no idea how to resolve. Sorry not to have any good advice.
My heart goes out to you. I am dealing with a very similar situation with my own mother. I struggle with balancing her needs (medical and psychological) and my and my family’s needs. The guilt is very much there and I know that I do enable some of the behaviors. Unfortunately, I can’t offer much in the way of advice, seeing as I share the same struggles but I can offer my sympathy and empathy to you
r/schizophrenia ?
My grandmother was very reluctant to go on the medications that her neurologist reccomeded. Her brain cognition had gotten so bad that she could barely speak and had no idea what was going on. She forgot how to use the microwave, and started putting TV dinners in the toaster with the packaging and she started a kitchen fire.

I got her to finally take them and surprisingly she did a complete 180 and became way more cognizant than before. She even reflected on how much difficulty she was having without her current medication, and expressed that she never wanted to go back to how she felt pre-meds.

You can tell her just to try it, and if she doesn't like them she can always stop. Maybe we were lucky, but we saw such a drastic turn so fast it was pretty incredible. She might get on them and decide to never go back--she will most likely see an enormous change in her life for the better. Maybe try to emphasis that... That these medications will make her life so much better.
Thank you so much for sharing your experience ❤️. I’m so sorry you have to grieve your brother and deal with your mother’s self-neglect as well… It’s unbelievable how much they put us (and themselves)through for no good reason. I’m just really tired of this and wish I had a normal life with a normal family…
I’m glad that my post spoke to you. I’ve never met anyone else in this situation and I also feel very alone in this :( nobody seems to talk about these things openly.
It’s probably the toughest situation to be in. The guilt is just debilitating :(
I’ll definitely seek advice on there! Thank you ❤️
Thanks for sharing! The thing is she was on them for a while (under court order) and hated it for some reason, and also part of her delusion is that there’s a conspiracy to poison her with meds so she’s very afraid of taking them :/
There is no such thing as a "normal" family.   Please let go of this fairy tale and allow yourself to grieve the loss of your mother.  It might help you then to move on. You have done all you can but you can't be responsible for her behavior.  I had a sister that was bipolar that refuse to take her medicines and I had to move away in order to be able to survive and lead a normal life.  I also have a brother that is not only a raging alcoholic but also a  cruel and self-absorbed individual.  I could no longer tolerate the hour-long phone conversation filled with anger and threats.  I blocked him and I am much happier.  Call me selfish if you wish.  Good luck.  You deserve better than this.
I’m glad you were able to find peace. It’s not selfish; In order to be of any use to anyone else, we need to take care of ourselves first.
