This is a fairly complex topic. 
The inability to comprehend spoken words and the bigger picture they are communicating involve 1 of 2 different speech centers of the brain. The inability to understand or interpret speech is called receptive aphasia. This can be the sole reason for the aperrent. Need to talk simply. And even then visual aids can be very helpful communication aids.  Often people that have receptive aphasia, AKA Broca's aphasia will be aware of the fact that they suffer from this to some extent at least and will often talk in a jumbled up hodgepodge of words that they can still remember and recall, however those words are connected in such a way that rarely any sense is made of the verbal expressions made by the patient. This is called a receptive confabulation AKA word salad. And the receptive aphasia and the coping mechanisms associated with it like the word solid type speech can often appear to have very loose temporal relationships.

It sounds like the other issue, and this may be the only issue that your father suffers from that is preventing him from understanding what the TV news program is trying so desperately to explain is something called impairment of executive cognitive function. Well this is extremely common and oftentimes one of the first manifestations of lewy body dementia, it is a global phenomenon that often occurs in every form of dementia so this behavioral feature, well very sensitive is also very nonspecific and in isolation it is not extremely useful and trying to subclass the type of dementia. 

Executive function is a term used to describe higher order thinking. Examples include inability to understand the relationship between cause and effect, a lack of self insight leading to uncomfortable social situations escalating to quite scary or self-destructive behaviors. This domain of cognitive functionality is also responsible for things like advanced planning. Schedule management, multifaceted prioritization of goals and tasks etc. Impairment of executive cognitive function is almost always accompanied by other secondary manifestations of dementia like a change in the patient's frequency and severity of paranoid ideation, the ability to self inhibit inappropriate or socially unacceptable impulses is affected by executive function impairment as well.

Hopefully that gives you a little bit of insight and a firm foundation in which you can further explore and educate yourself or, get additional specialized targeted help for your dad.

As for specific unique clinical features that help to differentiate lewy body dementia from things like Parkinson's disease or Alzheimer's disease or vitamin deficiencies that can masquerade as dementia, first these things have to be definitively ruled out with testing, at least as best they can be evaluated. 

If You have initiated investigations that are directed at diagnosis and severity of disease as well as ruling out other common forms of dementia. Then one thing to note is that the majority of people suffering from lewy body dementia will experience hallucinations that are quite variable in their level of realism and how much dark negative themes are Incorporated versus happy smiley ones. The pathnemonic type of hallucination that primary Care providers as well as family will report are hallucinations involving young children. It's been a little while but the last I really tried to evaluate the prevalence of this, there was also very little in terms of theories as to why this particular subgroup of dementia sufferers also suffer from this specific type of hallucination. In general, I would talk to you the neurology specialist that should be managing your dad's presumed Parkinson's disease and be completely positive one way or another if there have been any appropriate evaluations directed at a differential diagnosis that could be insightful that would be really good information to have at hand.


If that did not occur during the work-up and evaluation for the Parkinson's disease then I would consider at the very least getting a second opinion versus running as fast as you can while assisting in whatever mode of locomotion your father currently requires. 

I hope this helps and just bear in mind this is very general information which may or may not apply to your father. The only way to definitively know that that is to interact with him and professionally evaluate him.
Parkinson's can eventually lead to dementia. Parkinson's disease dementia and Lewy Body dementia are basically the same thing and are differentiated by the order in which symptoms appear: if the movement problems are first, it's PDD, and if the cognitive symptoms are, it's LBD.  

My dad has Lewy Body dementia. The first signs were him being unable to do tasks he'd always been able to do. He couldn't seem to piece together what to do and in what order. He also had trouble with words. Mostly in finding them, or in using the wrong word without realizing it so that what he said was a little nonsensical. Irrational anxiety is also often an early sign and was present in my dad's case. He may also have had hallucinations at that point but he's the kind of person who would hide that and not tell anyone. We only found about the hallucinations and delusions when they got bad enough to trigger meltdowns. Good that your dad is willing to talk about it: that'll make diagnosis easier. Given the cognitive issues and hallucinations, unfortunately, I think there's a good possibility of PDD, although of course you'll need a doctor to help you determine that with any degree of certainty.

An MRI isn't really diagnostic by itself. You can't officially diagnose PDD/LBD until an autopsy, but with a combo of cognitive tests, MRI, a list of diagnostic symptoms, and sometimes a DaTscan, you can be reasonably certain. The latter measures dopamine uptake in the brain and can identify abnormalities in the dopamine system typical of these diseases.

My advice is to find a neurologist who specializes in this area, if you don't already have one, and go from there. Even though PDD/LBD is something like the second or third most common type of dementia, not a lot of people are aware of it, doctors included, so it's often misdiagnosed. Another diagnostic symptom is fluctuating cognition - this disease is more of a roller coaster than a slow decline so they can seem fine one day and then totally out of it the next. That can make diagnosis trickier if they have a "good" day at the doctor's office, so it helps to keep a notebook of observations to share with the doctor.

It is important to know whether this is PDD, because folks with this dementia are highly sensitive to certain meds, including anti psychotics, benzos, and Parkinson's drugs like Carbidopa and Levodopa. Beware of those because they can make the cognitive symptoms worse.

If it is PDD, make sure his legal and financial affairs in order now, while he can still understand what he's signing, and start researching care options, both in home and in a facility. An elder care attorney can help with all that.
Yes. Lewy Body dementia can look very much like PD. Especially in the early stages.
He did an mri and memory test. The memory test showed a slowdown in recalling of words. The mri results will only be made known to us next year. He has passed earlier dementia assessments but his executive function has definitely dropped. He has hallucinations but know that they are not real.
We have already done poa, actually he isn’t that willing to talk about his symptoms unless in the presence of a doctor. He has a neurologist and he didn’t complete the mri only part of it. The words thing is more of an understanding thing, but he has used the wrong words on occasion such as calling butter milk.
What signs are normally exhibited? He now has trouble understanding tv/ news and filling in forms. The other day my sister had to explain the difference between an  ulcer and cracked lips fo him in simple English.
All of this is consistent with LBD. The hallucinations are often times recognized as such im the early stages. Has he ever shared with you in detail what the hallucinations consist of ?
One other thing I should mention. Sometimes medications that are taken for Parkinson's disease can increase the likelihood of hallucinations completely independent of other contributors. This may confound the diagnostic value of said hallucinations in the setting of lewy body dementia. Just wanted to throw that pertinent bit of info out there in case your dad is on some of those medications that can increase likelihood of hallucinations and otherwise dementia free individuals.
Another early sign is loss of sense of smell. It can often be the first and only sign. My mum also complained of loud knocks or bangs, sometimes in the middle if the night. I believe these were aural hallucinations.
Just a figure at the side of his eye in the evenings
Yeah the loss of smell was what lead to the Parkinson’s diagnosis.
That’s really interesting. My dad also sees people just at the corner of his eyes.

FWIW when my dad was in hospital I took a notepad and pen. I asked him about his recent hallucinatory episode and it was almost magnificent.

I’ll keep the record as an interesting leap through his time and space. It was interwoven memories of 70 years living in London and NW England. Every person mentioned was real and locations more or less bang on. Only problem was it’s all from the 70s and the scenarios are made up. The way he spoke about it was that it was absolutely real to him.
Oh interesting i didnt realize it was also an indication of Parkinsons as well!
Thanks for all the detailed responses
Interesting but I would be scared if it was me
Yeah I mean besides the other signs.
