If you tour the facility, keep a look out for the residents cleanliness there. Do they have dirty nails? Are the beards (even the women!) unkempt, unshaven? These are signs of staff laziness or even negligence, poor staffing ratios. I use to think this was junk until I went from working at a wonderful facility to working at a ...not so wonderful facility. 

Ask to see an activity calendar, don't just ask what activities they have. Former facility: 3-4 activities a day, varying in levels of appropriateness. Current: 1 activity that isn't appropriate for everyone. Ask to see the menu (they have to have it posted on the floor; my former facility used to show off our *catering* menu which was not the same as the SNF menu, which was actually another very good but different menu). 

What are the visiting allowances if there is a COVID outbreak? At my facility, if we have more then 2 positive tests, visits stop. We haven't had a positive test between staff and residents in months, so the visits have been wonderful and free flowing but we have 2 staff with pending tests and I can only imagine the heatbreak if we have to turn away families because of this. 

I don’t know *much* about billing, but I do know that Medicaid won't kick in until the resident's assests are close to nothing. I'm not sure about this but I do believe there have been families who have transfered large amounts to themselves somehow (houses, property, cars) but again I'm not too sure about that. 

Keep a notepad somewhere easily accessible and write down any question that pops into your head! Anything! This is a big move. A big decision. No question is too small. The person you meet with, its their job to answer your questions.
What does it smell like? 

Do the residents look happy?

Do the employees look happy? (In conversation, maybe ask some of them casually how long they’ve been working there.)

How did they handle covid? Did they isolate everyone from each other? Did they cease visitation?

How much extra does administration of meds cost? 

Will she have her own room or share?

Is food included or extra?

Do you have to pay for stuff like adult diapers?

What kind of activities do they do?

Some of the fancier places have a barbershop/salon, cafe, library. I saw one place where a group were playing Nintendo bowling, but i don’t think that was memory care. 

Another thing I specifically looked for bc my dad has hearing damage: echoey rooms and hallways. I vetoed some places with big boomy rooms because they distorted sound. 

(My dad is in a weird situation where he’s pretty lucid but he can’t remember half his life, so the things I’ve been looking for are a bit different than the norm. Also we’re paying out of pocket as he has a pension, so idk about Medicaid.)
Other questions to ask:

* Do they do her laundry or do you have to?
* How do they handle medical care - do you have to take her out of there to appointments or do they have in-house doctors? Is there an in-house pharmacy? If yes, how do they handling billing/co-pays? Is PT/OT a possibility?
* What happens if she needs long-term medical care? Under what conditions is it an age-in-place facility? Under what conditions would she have to be removed from the facility?
* Are baths available or only showers? How often will she receive bathing support?
* What are the options for getting her hair cut? Is there a stylist who comes in house or do you have to do it?
* What furniture do you need to supply? What items can you bring to her room to make it more homey?
On the financial side, my mom is basically using all the money from selling the farm house and acre she and my dad owned for 50 years (my dad passed away in Dec of 2019) to pay for her assisted living housing.  The rest of the farm was only in my dad's name and that passed to us kids through a TODD and not to my mom, thank goodness.  We invested that money, for anything she could ever need or want, through an LLC owned by myself and my two brothers.  When the money from the farm house is gone, her long term insurance policy will kick in (my parents took that out 25 years ago, my dad never used his portion...)  After that is exhausted, she will personally have less than $2000 to her name and Medicaid will kick in and since she's already in the facility, she can stay there (each facility HAS to have a certain number of bed dedicated to Medicaid patients, FYI).  In any case, she is set up -- we are very fortunate.  It is a lot easier to make that eventual shift to Medicaid if your loved one is already IN a care facility and my advice is to err on the side of too soon rather than too late, even though I know that is super difficult depending on the wishes of the loved one.
We set up a QIT. Qualifying Income Trust. I am now Power of Attorney for my mom (76 F Alzheimers)-we did this to be able to qualify for a Medicaid and all the services associated with it. My mom didn't have 80k though so if you speak to an elder specialty lawyer, they can set up the QIT and guide you on how to reallocate the 80k without losing it.
Everything listed here, absolutely, but also trust your nose. If you smell urine or feces, it's a negative unless it's obviously coming from one person and that person is taken to deal with it soon after. Are the residents up and moving around or is everyone in their room staring at walls or lying in bed at all hours of the day? Is the exit door disguised or is it obvious? The memory care unit my mom was in had a mural covering the door, she never really noticed it and didn't try to leave from it, my uncle was in a different memory care where the door was obvious and there were several people constantly upset because they couldn't get out and gathered around the door making it difficult for visitors and staff to enter or exit. It was a big deal that Mom didn't see a way out because she'd actually managed to get outside of the regular nursing home area one day by accidentally triggering a fire failsafe on the main door by ramming the door with her chair and holding it there until the door unlocked- they changed door procedures right after that and moved Mom to the memory care unit. Observe staff interaction with residents, they're likely going to be on their best behavior if they know they're being watched but does it seem natural or forced? Just trust your gut, most of all. If something doesn't feel right, ask why it's done that way. And even after getting things decided, don't let your guard down. Pop in occasionally on a different schedule than normal, if possible get to know the staff. Ooh! Staff! Ask if the staff is constantly in the memory care unit or rotated in and out to other areas. With my mom and several of the others she was in with, they distrusted new faces and wouldn't cooperate. For a while they were pulling random people from the regular nursing home in to the memory care and many weren't dementia trained. Mom was told by one temporary staffer that she was there for the rest of her life and would die there when Mom was saying something about working toward getting to go home- which was the way we kept her calm in there and all the regular staff knew to go along with it. That staffer got written up and was banned from working in the memory care unit again because she refused to just go with the flow because she said it was lying and wrong. But anyway, yeah, there's a lot to think about but when you find a good memory care, it's so much better. The patient's being cared for, family members can be family members again and sit down to visit and play games or do whatever with the person and not worry about getting them to take their meds on time or get them to take a shower. It's less stressful once everyone's settled into the new routine.
