You get to choose your purpose now. It's okay that you had resentment, I too have resentment taking care of my mom. That's normal. 

Allow yourself time to grieve. You did the best you could. You ARE a good daughter! 

What do you want as a person? What was the thing that beckoned you when you couldn't leave that pulled your heart and gave you joy? What was the thing you wanted but haven't had the time to do, or study for? 

You are strong. You are brave. I'm sorry that the bad time came, but I promise you that you can get through this. Maybe you can start by going to a grief support group? 

Until then, please know that you are allowed to grieve. You are allowed to feel emotions. You are allowed to be and stay in this as long as you need. Just remember to get back up again. 

Make a list, a simple one for the day. Brush teeth, make bed, shower, eat. A simple list can help you feel accomplished in the day but also remind you that you need to take care of yourself. 

My heart is with you. The pain will always be there, but the sting you feel now will fade with time.
First of all, my condolences to you and your family. Dealing with family loss after we caregive for them for so long is not an easy thing. I lost my mother with Alzheimer's as well four weeks ago after caring for her for the last 7 years. I know how you feel. The feelings of what do I do now? Did I do enough to caregive for them? The feelings of whether we could have done more or not bubblin up. We wake up every morning thinking to bathe/feeding him/her as the first thing in our thoughts but now that's not the case anymore. How do we adjust now? All that. 

Know that even though you feel tire physically and mentally caregiving for him, you are a good daughter who takes care of him. You did the very best you can to give care and love to him. That is never an easy task and not everyone can do it because of how hard it is especially when it's our loved ones. He can now rest peacefully and not suffer anymore from that cruel illness which is Alzheimer's. Take all the time to grief. It will take time to adjust to it, and know that he was loved and cared for to the very best that you could. Hugs.
Do not punish yourself for honest emotions that we all go through. It's *ok* to feel relief, it's a normal human reaction. It's *ok* to feel resentment when we feel underappreciated, when our time is not our own. It's a normal human reaction. Don't let guilt eat at you, it's insidious. You gave 4 years of your life to the care of another, you did the best you could for your dad, and stayed until the end. Give yourself a hug and take a deep breath. This is your time again, live well, be happy. 

Condolences for your loss.
❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️
Darling everything you're going through is very natural and unfortunately part of the grieving process. When my mother died in 2003 I remember one of my first emotions was relief and then I felt super horrible about myself for feeling that way. Please don't beat yourself up too much because you're going through enough right now. Hugs
You've done the best thing a child can do for a parent, and the hardest as well. Everything you are feeling is normal. Take time to grieve this loss both as a child and caregiver, and give yourself time to find that new motivation. One of your main purposes now however is to care for yourself - it is just as important as caring for your father was.
Thank you all for the kind words. I had only recently found this sub, reading the words of others in my situation had made me feel almost normal in my feelings and reactions. When I posted this, I had just gotten home from the hospital and was raw, I am still that way. I know it will take time to heal and find my new way.

I want to thank everyone that caregives. I know how much you lose, how tired you are. I can tell you that I woke up with a feeling of gratitude that I was able to be there for him, to be the one, along with my amazing sister, that loved him to the last second. Just know in the toughest moment of caring for your loved one, when you feel taken for granted, that deep inside, they know and love you.
I’ve written & rewritten this so many, wishing I could find the right words to share. I am so sorry for your loss -&- inspired by your message. Please continue to take comfort in knowing what a difference you made in the quality of your beloved father’s life/EOL care. We  will keep you & yours in our hearts and prayers.
