If you can find out who your dad’s doctor is, it wouldn’t hurt to call and get their advice, and see if you can help get him an appointment. 

Tread lightly though - this can be a really sensitive topic to bring up with aging parents... it’s not easy to know that your mind is starting to slip and then to worry about what admitting it will all mean such as loss of freedom/abilities, people thinking less of you, etc. You know your dad best - approach him in a way that you think will get him to listen or finding supportive friends and family members to help talk with him too. 

Best of luck, OP. You concerns are valid!
Caregiving is exhausting.

Lack of sleep makes things much worse.

So with your Mom passing, I suspect your Dad is exhausted. Lack of sleep, and stress, make things much worse. He needs time to grieve but needs to keep active during this time.

Sadly I'm the Dad with Parkinson's, and my wife is a lifelong alcoholic who has destroyed her colon, so we've been batting hospitals, care facilities, and a nonhealing wound.  I've fallen a few times in the past month, and things have been much worse.

Do look for "Parkinson's Boxing your-city." I work out 4x a week with my group. All of us have Parkinson's. Class does many exercises, core work, and our boxing is hitting heavy bags while working on footwork.   I finally taught myself how to do jumping jacks, but on the days when I am fatigued can not synchronize my arms and legs.

Just check in with him. Is he doing good sleep hygiene (no computer after 6 pm; no late-night news of TV; bed at 10 PM. Room temp cooler, only night lights in hallways - we get up to go pee often, stay in bed until 6 AM).

Keep to a routine. Keep engaged socially with friends; exercise. Eat sensibly.

It's always good to go with him to the Neurologist to give details.
Definitely get him to check in with his doctor.  Grief can have all kinds of side affects, including memory problems.
How old is he? Grief is weird. It really doesn't sound too out of the ordinary of someone who just lost their spouse. Of course you don't know if this is greif or something else and you need to figure that out.
