It sounds like memory care may be the best place for her. The staff in a memory care will be more prepared for her confusion than the staff in the assisted living are. I'm sorry to hear about the speed of her decline. Its incredibly hard to watch.
You need memory care. Especially with her wandering.  Memory care is a locked place. We had my mom at a small residential house converted to a memory care place with 10 residents/women.  It was cheaper than corporate memory care. I believe the care was far superior there compared to corporate places.  Shop around and tour them.  Tour is a must. Make sure the place is clean.  Ours was spotless.  Hold yourself to a high standard when shopping around.  Care homes are America's dirtiest secret.  Absolutely make sure it is clean.  When your grandma moves in, be present, visit frequently.  You and your family will be her biggest advocates.
Memory care is the right place. Assisted living doesn't have the supervision necessary for someone with dementia. 

Your grandma's decline sounds like mine. She had alcoholism-related dementia and that escalated really quick. The paranoia and delusions were thankfully a short-ish phase, a few months. It was made worse whenever she had access to a TV showing dramatic shows or the news, and luckily memory care usually ensures those are not around. 

If your grandma is falling out of bed, you may need to request a low bed or mechanical bed that lowers. Falling a couple inches is much better than falling a couple feet. There are also fabric bolsters that can be added to the edge of the mattress to help. Bed rails aren't legal in my state for dementia patients in a nursing home setting due to the potential for restraint abuse (which I get, but it's really frustrating as bed rails help so much with the falling) so the bolsters were a huge help.
Has Grandma been checked for a transitional delirium?
Often moves can cause a delirium in someone with dementia. The acute confusion that came on within a day or two sounds like it could be Delirium.
Meanwhile make sure that any reversable causes of Delirium can be addressed, so make sure she's hydrated, make sure that she's eating well, there's no pain, and that you're using picture markers for things like the toilet. 
Enhanced support might be best while she recovers from this. Here's some information on Delirium, ask the medics supporting her in the hospital if they feel this could be an issue for her.
https://www.alzheimers.org.uk/get-support/daily-living/delirium
It definitely sounds like your grandma would benefit from the support that memory care offers. They work with their residents in a way that assisted living can’t. Many memory care facilities have activity coordinators that arrange projects and activities appropriate for those diagnosed with dementia. The huge downside is how expensive memory care is, compared to assisted living. I think you and your dad are doing the best thing for your grandma. Plus, when you spend time with her, you can now do so as a visitor and not a caretaker; it sounds like you’ve dedicated a lot of years helping her out. Your grandma is lucky to have you. Good luck to you and your dad.
Memory care all the way. Some assisted livings can handle mild dementia, but it doesn’t sound like she’s an appropriate fit for her current environment. I’ve worked in memory care for 4 years, and it sounds like she would greatly benefit from a routine-oriented environment. Beware though, strange behaviors like the ones she’s experiencing now are very common the first two months or so when they move to a different environment. So don’t freak out if she isn’t any better when she moves. It takes time and lots of love and patience.
I realize now that it seems like a combination of my grandpa dying in January 2020 and isolation because of covid seems to have set off the beginning of this dive. The move accelerated the decline even further. I'm not sure if she can come back from this, but she will be transitioned into memory care as soon as the hospital discharges her from their rehab skilled nursing facility. The memory care team tells us the move could affect her further, or best case scenario she settles into a routine and slightly improves after some time.

Thank you for sharing!
Very true. We went through this with my grandpa in 2017 and for 3 years he was moved quite a few times. We finally found a facility that worked for us. They held to their promises and he was well cared for there. The caregiver to memory care resident ratio was great, too. He got alot of one on one time when he needed it.

My grandma is in the assisted living side of that community now and will be transitioning into the memory care area of the facility as soon as she is discharged from rehab skilled nursing. I hope it goes well. She's currently in the hospital yelling at the nurses that she is being held hostage. 😓

Thank you for sharing!
Thank you for sharing!

We toured the memory care area of her current facility and they showed us all of the safety features and procedures they have in place to keep the residents safe. There is a motion sensor in the apartment that prompts the caregivers to immediately go to assist the resident. I hope this will decrease my grandmother's falls, especially since she forgets to use her walker. I will ask about the bed rails.

They keep the memory care resident population pretty minimal, too, which is a plus. My grandma would be the 10th resident and I saw 7 caregivers in the area yesterday so I'm sure she'll get alot of support.

Thank you!
Thank you for sharing! This definitely sounds like it could apply to her. She did have dehydration and a UTI the first week of moving. We watched for improvement once the dehydration and UTI was treated, but she only seemed to decline further.

She is still in the hospital now getting a CT scan, neuro consult, and bloodwork done. I'll reach out to them. She'll be discharged to a rehab skilled nursing facility, and from there discharged into memory care. I hope all this moving around doesn't make the issues worse.

Thank you again!
Thank you! She will be transitioning to memory care as soon as she is discharged from skilled nursing rehab for her fall. I hope it goes well!
Thank you so much for sharing your experiences. She will be transitioning into memory care as soon as she is discharged from skilled nursing rehab. I hope a routine in memory care will help her improve over time.
A UTI is a massive trigger for delirium! Definitely ask her professionals if they've screened for it.
What I normally advise as a professional is to bring familiar things for orientation, depending on her stage of dementia, an orientation board with info like "night__fall will visit today" it's Monday the second and you're in ABC hospital at 123 ward can help some people, otherwise photos, a bedspread she might recognise, familiar music etc can all help. Try to make the new environments look like home, and use pictures for important things like signage.

I hope she does well and that advice helps. There's a lot of information on delirium online
