maybe start documenting these events so the next time you bring it up to family members they can't just brush it off.

are you able to go to a doctor's appt with her, or contact here PCP if she has one? seems like it'd be worth getting her evaluated
Another possible explanation is that she's got sleep apnea/is sleep deprived (although the falling doesn't fit this). A neurologist could help accurately identify the root cause (although maybe not without an in-person visit).
You are completely justified. No one believed me about my mother. "Oh, she just repeats herself because she wants to participate in the conversation and doesn't have anything else to say." 🤯 She's now in assisted living with a diagnosis of dementia, on meds and says herself that she doesn't have any mind anymore.
She has dementia.

The falling alone is an early sign: the gait of people with dementia changes. Add to that the forgetfulness and the fear and she's deep into it.

When you can, you can get her a Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE).

Until then, divorce yourself from it by refusing to enable:

"No, I will not accompany her to the store, she has dementia."

"No, I will not check in on her cooking, she has dementia.  She needs professional help."
Not sure if you mentioned where your from but a issue I had with my mother is a power of attorney so you can help her with things. 

Once her mind starts and it's documented by doctor's she can no longer sign to give you poa, a court must. 

Even if it's never used have your parent sign a poa to you or a sibling before makes it to that point. Otherwise it's a lot of red tape.
You’re in a tough spot. Hugs to you though for being watchful & caring. Does your MIL always see the same PCP? If so, please document everything you see: what, when, dates & times.  Then take your list (keep a copy for yourself) & your concern that she has dementia & send it to her PCP. Her doctor may not be able to share any of her info with you but you sure as heck can tell her doctor all of the info about her that you want. Once the doctor receives your letter they may call your MIL in for a checkup.  If not, at least your letter is in her file for her next appointment whenever she does go in. 

Keep watching your MIL.  Urge them to get their wills & poa’s in order.
My MIL had early onset. Looking back on it, probably started about 55 but by the time she was 60 it was obvious to everyone but her pin headed husband. My husband (her son), tried desperately to get a diagnosis, adult day care, etc. Complete resistance until one day her husband threw up his hands and wanted her gone. My husband and I had to scramble to find a facility, which sucked. We both knew that nothing was going to be done until it became a crisis. And it certainly did. I'm so sorry for what you and your husband are going to go through. There's really nothing you can do if MILs husband and other children refuse. It's a trainwreck waiting to happen. Just stand by, wait for it to happen and then go visit. And go visit often because after she is put in a facility, NO ONE will consistently help (too depressing, she doesn't know me, etc.). Save your energy for making sure she is clean, has clean clothes, treats to eat and some exercise and sunshine. You definitely need to "pop in" at these facilities at odd times and be totally on top of her care. Good luck. This is a marathon, not a sprint.
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
re covid, i get it, but a doctor's office is going to have some of the best covid protocols out there. if this is a big issue, maybe try a telehealth appointment first.

and there are some tough questions you need to ask yourself...

is it worth pushing this w/ your wife and in-laws?

which leads to...

who's gonna end up caring for partner's parents as they diminish?

if it's your family, push and get it sorted, if not maybe let the chips fall where they may. kinda harsh i know, but you'll need to find some balance here. maybe lean on the in-laws and say, "if we don't deal with this, y'all get to take care of them"
Hopefully she will feel confident about a visit with a doctor in an office soon. And maybe her knowing that it's not pre-determined to be a visit that has some guaranteed terrible outcome -- like maybe it's something simple and super treatable like apnea (a great night's sleep and feeling rested could be just around the corner!) might make a visit feel less daunting when she's ready.
Keep documenting. Keep a watch for package deals from local lawyers for wills & POAs & pass them on when you see them. Remind the family that people die every day from car accidents & leave a mess behind because their affairs weren’t in order.  Then just wait. If the family has decided to wait for a catastrophe to happen before they act, that’s on them, not you. They get to deal with mess.
[deleted]
This is so true, AND they fight getting to the neurologist but often the earlier it's caught the better the outcome. It doesn't mean life is over, it CAN get better. With the elderly it can be their not drinking enough water, vitamins are off, etc. My friends mom got it in her brain that she needed to drink a cup of water every hour. She ended up diluting her meds so much they stopped being effective for her parkinson's. Once it was caught she got soooo much better, this was extreme but point is their systems are so sensitive.
You could always call and make an APS report (Adult Protective Services ... just like CPS... Child protective services). Every county has an APS line. I would say to them that you are very concerned for her safety and give the examples of stove and meds, those issues can become life/death. You can be anonymous, but family may figure it out, be prepared for that. They would do a check and if she appears to be a danger to herself they could reach out to the family.
Of course, always the best choice would be to get other family on board to helping her be evaluated... It's soooo hard. So many layers and factors and relationships involved...family dynamics. I'm wondering if you didn't label it as specific Alzheimer's or agoraphobia, but just memory issues, trouble leaving the house , etc...maybe they would be less resistant to you.
My dad looks like Alzheimer's but it is another brain issue, and as long as he stays in his routine he seems fine. You really have to spend time with him to see it. Likely why MIL stays home, it's familiar...so not truly agoraphobia (which is psychological), more a byproduct of whatever is going on with her brain...you may be causing resistance in the family without meaning to.
Documenting what you see and going to a doctor's appointment where you can slip the info into a conversation with the doctor would be the fastest. 
My dad went undiagnosed cuz he went to the doctor alone... Looking back I would have insisted... But didn't want to push his rights away from him. 
Maybe sending along some basic articles to family of things to be looking for when mom and dad are aging? Maybe they would start to get it with some basic info of how it starts and progresses?
Last thought...about 10 years ago my dad's wife wouldn't let anyone see her doctor with her, she knew they were going to pull her license (and it needed to be pulled). I had my dad send the doctor a letter with a bullet list of what was going on. No opinion just facts...I don't know that the doctor ever read it, but it was the only way to get him the info. I figured it was worth a shot. 
It's a very fine line to walk... Good luck, fingers crossed for the best outcome.
