Think of it from her perspective.  Her whole world is being disrupted for no reason.  Perhaps she's been told her dementia is the reason she needs to move.  If she's anything like my mom, she's interpreting this as "you think I'm crazy and need to be locked up!"  Which of course triggers her defenses and spins her into a panic. 

Start packing up things she won't need right away. Winter blankets, for example.  If possible, do it without her knowledge - while she's eating dinner or out with another family member.  Optimally, she won't know they're missing.  If she notices, say they're around somewhere they'll turn up.  Ignore the screaming and cursing, as if it were a toddler acting out.  Don't even acknowledge it.

Take her out for daily excursions to different places (hotels for example), walking in the door, touring around, and going home. These can be really short visits - just get her into the car, driving around, out of the car, back in the car and home again.   If necessary, tell her you need her help/advice - it's someplace you're considering using for business or family visits.  This way, moving day will be just another excursion.  If you can't even get her in the car, start with  daily visits and walks down the hall.  Anything to get her used to leaving her room with you.  You might even bring her little treats so the excursions are reinforced as pleasant experiences. 

On the day of the move, don't tell her it's move day, simply go for another drive, visit the new place, and establish her in her new room, already outfitted with some of her stuff.  Anything else she needs can get packed up and follow later in the day or in the following days.   Keep an overnight kit with her toothbrush, etc. with you so you'll be ready to drop her off.   She may be royally p\*ssed off on the day, but I'm sure the memory care staff are used to dealing with it.  And the positive side of dementia is that the feelings of confusion, anger and betrayal pass fairly quickly when she's distracted.

Hugs.  This is a really tough process and it means being a bit manipulative and perhaps deceptive.
Having had to move my mother from semi-assisted living into memory care, I can say it is rough.   My mother was saying similar things and was very, very angry.

We were advised by the director of memory care not to tell her until the day before the move because if we didn't we'd have to remind her a lot and it would just upset her even further.

If you can have multiple people to help on the day of the move, that would be best- some to do the physical moving, one to handle paperwork and minor details and one to focus entirely on your family member.  

Plan to arrive in the morning, before lunch, because a meal is a good time to get to know others and it's not so late as dinner when there's more chance of sundowning and angry exhaustion.   

When we placed our mom, a staffer was assigned to be her special buddy that week, to make sure she was settling in.

Your family member may refuse but when she sees her things being packed she may rage and swear but she'll realize she can't stay if she doesn't have her clothes, bed, etc.   Give her the choice- does she want to go out for a bit with a family member while others pack or does she want to stay and "supervise"?

When she arrives, always defer as much as possible to her decisions.  "Do you want your recliner in this corner or over there?" "Where would you like to have this picture hung?"

A big move can be disorienting and we noticed a decline in our mom when we moved her- please know if that happens, don't blame on the move, blame it on the worsening dementia.   You may see new behaviors that you haven't seen in the past.  For example, my mother has everything piled in the corner, thinking she's at a resort but it's time to go home.  Everything, I mean everything, is jumbled up in her laundry baskets and she gets very very angry at the pile, yet she is adamant that I not touch anything or hang up any of her clothes in the now empty closet.

When the time comes, your family member will go. I won't mince words, it's difficult and sad.  It will take encouragement and firm resolve and many kind words and patience on your part.  

Please let us know how it goes.
How's it going?  Update us if you get a chance.
