My mom has alcohol induced dementia (though not as far advanced as your FIL's) and also has moments of clarity that make me question her being in assisted living. However her track record for falls and mini strikes says otherwise. 


She's also very good at covering for her dementia when she makes verbal mistakes, especially at the doctors office. Not helped by the fact that she withholds health concerns. I think it's because she was a functioning alcoholic for so long, she is "used" it covering for her lapses in memory.


Luckily he's sober now, and I hope for your SO's sake he stays that way. When your parent has had a chronic addiction your whole life, that can be a blessing. Also, big ups to you for supporting your partner.
Both my parents are lifelong alcoholics, mom is sober now and has dementia. We don't know if the dementia is alcohol related. I am also an alcoholic that has been sober for 15yrs. I would encourage you and your partner to look into Al-Anon, they are a support group for families of addicts that have regular meetings and it is totally free. You will meet a TON of people that are going through or have been though what you are experiencing and it will help you understand the way an alcoholic thinks and behaves and what to expect going forward.
My father has Korsakoff's Syndrome which begins as Wernicke-Korsakoff's Syndrome. I knew nothing about this affliction prior to his diagnosis.

It can be caused by a couple of things but most commonly alcohol and/or poor nutrition. Specifically, a lack of the B vitamin Thiamine. 

This disease can cause very abrupt dementia. In fact, it is almost never a slowly developing thing. 

There's not a lot of info about it. But what I can tell you is that quick medical attention and thiamine supplements, preferably injections are the best course of action. Also, absolutely NO ALCOHOL, no cured meats like salami or bologna, few processed foods and lots of vegetables. Best of luck. If you are a Facebook user there is a group for this called Wernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome.
[removed]
I first heard of alcohol dementia from... the Shameless show.

It's really frightening that out of control alcohol drinking could lead to that wretched illness!
My moms partner has early onset due to excessive drinking.
M m. M k,..k. ..


M.j, mm nvm xq
Thank you so much for sharing your experience, I appreciate the kudos - but kudos to you as well, this shit is not easy. Can I ask how long your mom has been showing symptoms/diagnosed? I know a few of FIL's doctors have mentioned them getting out of it within about a year, but I'm cautious about getting my hopes up when the whole medicaid/memory care situation needs immediate action if we want him to have a place there in the next 2-6 months.
Thank you so much, I'll definitely find one of those for us! I didn't realize they had support for families as well. Congrats to you on 15 years!!
Thanks, we were in the same boat - had never heard of this before FILs diagnosis. Luckily he's been absolutely sober since about March and when he's staying with us we watch carefully to make sure he continues to stay sober. I'll have to give the Facebook group a look!
Ya he's been completely sober since about March, the doctors found seizure activity in his brain comparable to epilepsy and have him on a medication for that. Luckily he doesn't have a car when he lives with us so we're able to keep him away from alcohol pretty easily!
My mom (74) started having mini strokes and showing signs of dementia about 20 yrs ago, but it's hard to determine the exact timeline because she was constantly drunk. She was diagnosed with dementia when she was taken to a rehab facility, which was the first time she had been dry in about a decade. 


She's been in an assisted living situation for several (about 8) years now and while she is still pretty functional mentally, she has had several falls due to drinking, and one major trip to the hospital for renal failure, likely due to binge drinking. If she wasn't in an assisted living facility, she would have been dead years ago. 


The unfortunate truth about most chronic alcoholics is if they can drink, they WILL drink. And memory issues make rehabilitation pretty much impossible. I would continue to aim for getting him into an assisted situation, especially given the suicidal thoughts. It's a lot easier to sleep at night when you know your loved one has a team of skilled caregivers to rely on if they get into mischief or have a fall.
