Check closets and under beds. Check bags and suitcases. Cabinets, and random trash cans.
They might be going down the toilet (I hope for your sake they aren't but that is where they go at work sometimes). They get stuffed into dresser drawers too, as if he is trying to put them away. 

Best of luck! Its a fun game of hide n seek.
My grandma used to put them in her closet and dresser drawers as if saving them "for later."  Even now though she doesnt take them off herself she gets upset when she sees me throwing soiled ones away "I need that!  It's perfectly good."
I always knew where my 100+ year old dad's poopy diapers were, since he used to wash them out.  In the sink.
My dad would put them in his underwear drawer.  I discovered it when we were packing him up to go to memory care.  I opened that drawer and almost passed out.
Out a window? Under beds? Kitchen cupboards? Dresser drawers? Laundry hampers?
Ok, this was the post I was looking for.  

How common are poopy diapers, urinary and fecal incontinence an issue with Alzheimer's? 

My MIL's brother 76m is in a Memory Care facility several states away and they have called several times to say he is hiding his used diapers, making his room smelly.  I am not sure what they expect MIL 81f with cancer,  to do from 800 miles away. They do know she is under cancer treatment, away from her home, and can not drive/fly there. I take care of her.

Initially the Memory Care said he was putting dirty diapers in his wastebasket and setting wastebasket outside his room door. Well, they took away his wastebasket and he started hiding them in dresser drawers, under bed, duffle bag, etc.

I don't have a lot of experience with Alzheimer's. Mostly,  I handle the bookkeeping end of his care, pay the room & board, meds, Medicare premiums for MIL who is his POA.
Drawers, laundry basket, bathroom cabinet, between the wall and the bed, between the wall and the closet door that's always open.

The struggle is real.
Oh dear goodness, I'm sorry I laughed..
800 miles is 1287.48 km
