I was reading this hoping to find some tips myself. Some people are just really good at small talk. I'm not. 

I find long term memory us better than short term. So anything about her childhood, siblings, places she lived, school, pets she had, long ago friends are usually a hit. Yesterday, I calmed and distracted my wife for hours with a page from the 1920 census listing her father at age 1 1/2. 

Depending on how much you know (to get the topic started) it's better not to phrase it as a question but rather something like "I always enjoyed hearing the story about your dog..." That way, if that memory isn't retrievable right now maybe it triggers something else.

I'm sure others will respond here with good ideas which I'm looking forward to

Good luck.
I have this same struggle. I find it best to not ask questions, but to make statements. I tell her about what I did today, even though I know she doesn't understand anything about computers or office work -- she just wants to feel included. Or I'll make observations about the birds or trees or flowers or weather or whatever we can see outside the window. Or, if I have the energy, I'll say, "That's a nice picture of Martha," knowing that will lead her to telling me AGAIN about all the people in all the pictures on the wall (and knowing that she won't remember their names, so I will be the one filling in the gaps for her -- that's what drains me of energy).
How about you put together a picture book?  Maybe of family? Is there something in particular she likes, animals, scenery?  Put pics of those in.  If she has trouble saying what she needs include pics of food and drinks, pics of rooms like bathroom and bedroom. Hard to "small talk" with someone who can't really talk anymore.  Using pics means she can just point at things.  Maybe lower your expectations because this disease will take more and more of her away from you so adjust your interactions. I think sometimes just sitting and holding hands is enough.
Music that she likes? Movies or TV shows she likes? Just sit and laugh at some comedy show from her era?
“Tell me a story”

Or tell her a story
I printed out 5x7 pictures of my mother’s brothers/sisters/parents etc and put them back to back in lamination sheets. I then put a hole in the lamination sheets so I could put them on a metal ring. She absolutely loves flipping thru them and they don’t get lost/destroyed. She loves birds so I am thinking of doing the same thing with bird pictures.
Short and simple questions. You can tell her about you as well but keep it short and simple sentences not a life story. Does she ever go outside, have flowers? Ask her if she likes a certain flower and what she likes, you can kinda help and say how the color is pretty or the leaves have a nice shape. See if she engages. Look at what she likes or liked in her life. 

Say if she always loved fashion get online and look up fashion, things she might like or from an older era and slowly, look at say dresses or hats with her and talk about how theyre pretty or the color, see if she engages. 

Just see what subjects or areas she responds too. be patient. Let her try but if she cant and you know what shes saying just reassure her

"oh yes, i know what you mean'. Then maybe state it generally. 

Play some of her favorite music and see how she responds, some from her childhood. 

My dad (94) will remember vivid detail from his childhood but not from 10-20 years ago. So see if you can find what she remembers and the things she likes. maybe ask her opinion, say you want to buy some new clothes, show her what you like and ask her what she thinks. 

Take her flowers, maybe she will enjoy arranging them, spark memories.
I talk about my day or something I read. Over and over. My dad doesn't know what I'm saying anyway so I could read the phone book if I could find one. I show him video of the dogs playing or dolphins or whatever is on Facebook
[deleted]
It’s good to discretely record their memories for posterity. They do sometimes create false memories.
This sounds great. My FIL always kept meticulous photo albums and when I sat with him I would pull them out and get him talking. He remembered the older things much better, as you mentioned. I remember sadly the time he could not identify a picture of his children when they were young, but could still tell me about his aunts and uncles and cousins.
This is my go to. Don’t ask cold questions (open up with questions or back to back questions) as this can cause strain as they try to remember which may lead to discomfort and them lashing out. 

Just tell them a story. If they tell you something or interrupt, jump into their story or conversation. 

Remember that this social interaction needs to happen in their frame of understanding, which can be frustrating to the caregiver, but just keep it casual and free flowing. If your loved one tells you about a memory which is incorrect or made up, don’t be confrontational just continue the conversation.
Thank you for posting the link to the coffee filter butterflies. My mam is in a carehome with dementia and loves nature. I am going to try these projects with her, I'll do all the prep and let her do the final step. Thanks again.
Yeah. Photo albums are a great way to kickoff a conversation.
