I’m so sorry to hear about your grandmother. It’s so difficult when people you love start to show signs of dementia or are diagnosed with it. 

Having been through it with several grandparents now, I can’t say that it gets easier per se…. But it IS comforting when they’re getting the care they need. When they have adequate care, often times they do better - they’re calmer, more engaged, and it can prolong a better quality of life. 

I think once the assessment is done and once the scans come back and you have some definitive answers about what’s going on and an idea of what you can do to help your grandparents, you’ll feel somewhat less lost. It’s being stuck in this limbo place that sucks the most, where you don’t know how to help them best. 

The dementia itself..? Tbh, even when you know what you’re in for, it doesn’t get any easier. It’s tough to watch, and I find it doubly difficult to see the spouses go through (ie, my grandmother, when my grandfather was going downhill - so tough to watch, but fortunately she was in assisted living and is aggressively social, so made lots of friends with other spouses of memory care patients). 

Right now you’re still in shock, sounds like. For now, you’re doing all the right things for THEM. But you also have to be sure to have a support system in place for yourself - sounds like your siblings are out of the picture, but perhaps it would help to find a therapist to help you through.
I'm really sorry to hear about your nan. My dad was diagnosed with Alzheimer's 3 years ago and his decline in 2020 was incredibly rapid and scary. The timing of the pandemic and my working from home was kind of convenient in that I could help my mom with my dad. I'd work from their apartment a few days a week to give my mom a break but ultimately my mom couldn't keep him safe anymore. We moved him in to Memory care this February. 

I don't know that I'd say it gets easier but you do adjust. You kind of learn what to expect (and even on that note that sometimes you'll be caught off guard), you learn the "tricks" (therapeutic lying, not asking questions and just telling stories, just going with their "reality"). My dad has said some hurtful things but I remind myself it's not him saying it, it's the disease. I feel as I've been going through this with my mom, I've become pretty good at compartmentalizing, especially when visiting my dad. The visits are really painful as my dad will cry the entire visit if I'm not quick to distract him. it breaks my heart and of course I want to just cry with him but that's not helpful. I bring him some of his favorite snacks (he has trouble eating now so I have to remind him what to do with it) and tell him funny stories, show him picture books, etc. Anything to distract him. 

I'm sorry that you are starting this journey; it is truly awful and an insidious disease. I find this community particularly helpful as only others who have been through it can really understand. Reach out whenever you need. I'll be thinking about you.
Thank you so much for taking the time to reply. I really needed it and I appreciate it.
Thank you so much for a lovely message. Did you feel guilty when you weren’t at home with your mum? Leaving my grandad isolated in Brighton and going back to work in London makes me feel so guilty
I did experience a lot of guilt and especially when we moved him in to memory care but my dad was not safe at home any more. Sometimes we have to do things that aren't ideal but are necessary for someone's health and/or safety. I try to remember that my dad would want me to live my life and wouldn't want me to feel guilty. That doesn't mean I don't feel guilty but I work hard to think about what my dad would want when he was of sound-mind.
