As someone who had guardianship in Florida, you'll need a lawyer and you'll need the lawyer to request that you take a guardianship course. The lawyer will also be needed to file the monthly reporting for you to the court. There are 2 different guardianships here, a personal (over the physicality of the person, where they live and so forth) and a financial guardianship,  where every penny spent must be approved of and reported.  A doctor's diagnosis will be needed to be put before the court as well. 

It will be hard to get a personal guardianship if you don't physically live near the person.
I recently had a consult with an elder care atty here in FL where I live, and my mother lives next to me with dementia. My mother is like yours, and I wanted to put her in assisted living with memory care. My mom is also at the "moderate" stage. One day fairly lucid the next day bat shit. 

I have a durable POA for both financial and medical, and a dementia diagnosis since early 2019 and that is not enough for me to force her into care. I was told I either needed to seek guardianship, or wait for a crisis, then the hospital could place her. How the hospital social workers can get instant guardianship for free and have people placed is beyond me.... but that is what I was told. If they end up in the hospital, you tell the social worker it is not a safe discharge and you are not able to be the caretaker. They can then place her. 

I feel your pain as I feel literally forced to wait for a CRISIS, this is not right, and I wish so much I had better advice for you. 

It seriously stinks! Also when I asked what guardianship would take I was again shocked. Does your mother know her name? Yes. Does she know who is president" Yes. Like really basic stuff. NOTHING like we see on the DAILY. The lawyer told me my mom could probably pass and all the cost (thousands) would fall to me.
That's rough. Are you directly related? If so you might not need anything. In FL we have lawyers that specialize in Elder care law.
 My mother was in assisted living at first. They wanted her to participate and go downstairs to eat in their dining room. They will bring trays up but charge extra. The extra fees were killing me. Eventually she wound up having a small heart attack. That's when she got moved to a nursing home. She actually likes the nursing home better, she has more friends and is happier.
We know it isn't sustainable which is why we are trying to do something now and convince her that being nearer to me is the way to go. The challenge is that she doesn't recognize her own issues. She does not want to leave where she is. She does not want any help.  But with no POA, we don't have any way to make her accept that help.  We tried to set up in home care for her even on a limited basis, and she refused to sign the document necessary for us to implement it. So, we may need to seek guardianship so we can start driving the changes that are necessary for her to get the help and support she needs.
Sorry to bring back something old, but wanted to update. We got mom some short term help until I could get back from overseas and get down to her. During that time I was able to finally find a POA and health care proxy she had drawn up some years ago outside of FL that we thought she had had done but couldn't find amongst her papers.  We had thought they were short term powers from when she had been ill but they were comprehensive and not revoked. 

At the same time she became more willing to accept help after a concerted effort by those of us who care about her. This made it possible to bring her back up north and settle her into an assisted living community near me. Initially it was supposed to be a trial but she is quite happy there and settled in very quickly because she has none of the worries that plagued her when she was trying to continue living on her own. She has a far more social experience than when she was on her own and it has been a long time since I have seen her this happy and anxiety free. Touch wood she remains happy and well and we can continue to laugh together. I know we still have struggles ahead, but somehow for now things have worked out.

I appreciate that this won't be particularly helpful information for others facing the prospect of seeking guardianship, and I wish you well.
Both my sister and I live thousands of miles away.  She moved to Florida for the sunshine and had her own siblings nearby but they are now moving back to be nearer their kids too. She really can't safely live independently anymore.
Oh wow, that's awful. I am sorry you're also going through something similar. I am trying to stop things from getting to a crisis stage, like you, but the system seems geared to head them that way.

The other thing that frightened me was that when I was visiting Mom, I took her to breakfast and there was a table of 'professional' guardians behind us. They were talking loudly about their wards and I didn't hear an ounce of humanity come out of their mouths when talking about them and their families. I so don't want that for her. I can't take care of her myself as 

I guess we are going to have to work on our powers of persuasion to see if we can get her to accept moving to assisted living voluntarily. It is going to be tough. 

We are in a similar situation. We can't afford to go through the process of seeking guardianship and have her and not succeed.
Yes, it's my mother. Without a POA it is my understanding we can't get her into assisted living or memory care if she doesn't agree to it and she would just walk out of her own accord at this stage. She is a fiercely independent and fiesty lady.
I'm sorry to hear about your mother's heart attack but I'm glad that it had a happy ending and that she is happier now
Get with an elder care lawyer. We had an amazing one. The guardianship isn't easy either, there are so many things that can trip you up even when you think you are doing what's best. The best piece of advice our lawyer gave me is to make decisions as if I was my mother, not as if I was me making the decision I thought was best.
Your mom being alone with progressing dementia isn't going to be sustainable at all. Is it possible to move her close to you into a senior apartment maybe until you can sort things out in your own state? 

At this juncture you may be able to get POA and paperwork in order from a lawyer in your home state by taking your mom on one of her lucid, calm days. 

In fact can you have her visit you and get that paperwork done, then go for a move?
