My husband is quite witty and will joke around. He was taking the MMSE and he was asked to repeat “apple ball penny”. He joked “apple ball silver dollar”. Well guess which word he didn’t remember?

He has to meet with a lawyer to determine competency to sign a will and I told him not to joke around. I don’t think the attorney will have a sense of humor on such a serious matter.
My mum turned everything into a joke. She turned it into one of her defining characteristics as it got worse. I laughed at first, but it stopped being funny when it started getting worrying. 😬 When people stopped laughing she just got angry instead. I think humour helped her to hold on to her sense of self. 🤷
When my dad was in the hospital (hospitals tend to make his dementia so much worse), I had a sibling get mad at me for asking him questions and actually said I was being unfair because I was asking him questions we knew he wouldn't know (they blamed his symptoms on the meds he was on). My questions were Who am I? Where are you?
I had heard the nurses ask similar questions many times so I figured it must mean something. Anyway I soon figured out my dad used humor/being vague to cover up. If I asked him who my son was, he'd answer "that's my buddy" and to a person outside looking in, that was an acceptable answer. But push him further and he sometimes didn't remember his name.
My mom's go to is "well I knew the answer right before you asked." It's a pleasant enough response but it breaks my heart every goddam time.

The first time it hit me was when the doctor asked several questions in a row: "what day is it? What month? What year? What season" and she tried to defer every. single. one.
I've attended three Moca tests with my mom now, and it is extremely difficult to witness.  (I'd like my brothers to go the next time, but it all makes them terribly uncomfortable).  Those answers pop into MY head in a millisecond and I mentally strain and urge my mom to answer correctly.  Silently cheer when she gets something correct, and silently sob when she has no idea what month it is and has no idea what any of the five words were that she was supposed to remember from two minutes ago.  

My mother uses grace more than humor.  She admits she can't remember things.  "It is what it is".  But in groups or with people she isn't as close to, she still deflects, makes a funny observation, or just becomes more quiet...which isn't like her at all.  No matter what avenue she chooses, her behavior isn't HER, and those close to her can see it clear as day--and my mom knows it, too.  Very sad.  I will almost welcome the day when she doesn't have to live every second with the horrible knowledge that she is losing her memory.
Almost always here. Humor is how we get through the days. If Ma forgets something, I usually pretend that I forgot something even worse so she can laugh at me. It's difficult to hold conversations because Ma forgets almost everything she was wanting to say after a couple words, but the quick, nonsense, self deprecating joke keeps her from sliding into her shell and fretting about it.
My mom took the test twice. Both times, it was heartbreaking hearing her biff answers that 10 years ago she would have had memorized. Grandchildrens names, ages of my children, and other details she never would have forgotten. 

In one test, she said mentioned I manage her finances cuz she got tired of doing it for so long as part of her job (she was a Bookkeeper)...sure mom...we'll go with that...

Last night, she learned my children had their own cell phones and had them for several years. Never hid this reality from her. Somehow she believed the phones were dummy phones? Mom...they aren't 5...
My dad joked all the time. Even before Alzheimer's he would pretend not to know us so when it got bad he would smile while being confused. People ask if he recognizes us and I truly don't know. By now, I think not but his humor hid it for a long time.
I’m very grateful my dad feels okay to admit that he doesn’t remember things or understand what I’m talking about. 

He cracks jokes after I explain stuff: “See? I TOLD you!” Or casually: “I knew that”, when it’s obvious to us both that he didn’t. 


We took an at-home covid test (results come like a pregnancy test) and I was showing him the window for results. I said “One line is negative, two lines is positive.”

He said, “I don’t understand what you’re telling me.”

I said, “One line is good, two lines is bad.”

Pause. Sassy: “That’s what I said!”

“Yep, I heard you!”


He took the MOCA in a telehealth call and it was baaad. But the merry humor is a consistent part of his personality that tells me he’s still there. 

I AM glad that he doesn’t use it defensively though.
As I understand it all we can do is slow it down. But if you can slow it down enough then maybe miss out on the worst of it. My dad doesnt joke, hasnt had a sense of humor since his stroke 4-5 years ago. I like to joke and laugh and its the hardest thing to not do that with my dad. Ive seen others do it tho. Id say its a normal coping mechanism and the neuro has seen it alot. She is blessed to have you. Now you folks know and can act accordingly. 

Take care
As a healthcare provider & a caregiver, I understand that appointments/questioning can be very confusing and stressful. You & the community are correct, humor can be a valuable coping mechanism & distractor that we need to recognize/learn to work with by asking differently. Personally, I believe it’s more valuable that our loved ones recognize themselves/us even if they get the year/city wrong. For my father, he never knows the name of the building he is in & sadly both he & Providers can become agitated when asked the same question over & over; so to help him & his docs I tend to let him answer first then ask him a little differently, such as “Dad, we’re at your favorite hospital, what’s the name of your favorite hospital?” Then he knows instantly. 

We also have two unexpected standing jokes that his Providers have learned are Dad’s ways.  Whenever anyone asks his age, Dad searches the room for me before he answers (bc tho I’m in my thirties, he knows I already fib about my age ☺️) -&- when asked if he has tattooes, he searches the room for my sis. I’m now convinced they have matching tats somewhere; and cherish how he remembers these lil jokes together, even on the days that he doesn’t remember my name, or confuses me with another fam member, the fact that he’ll return a smile or let me turn his pillow are enuf for me to know I’m still somewhere in his memory ✨❤️✨ 

Hang in there OP, she’s so blessed to have you -&- likewise, to the rest of this community & your loved ones.
I told my mom that she had to brush her hair before going out. She grabbed her toothbrush and started combing her hair and I gave her a funny look. Then she started laughing and played it like it was just a joke. 

We found her hairbrush 3 weeks later, it was misplaced, we don't know how long and what she had been using for her hair in the meantime. Maybe her toothbrush, maybe nothing at all. Who knows. 

That was just one example. The 'ooh I was just joking' act kind of a daily thing. And it's never ever funny to me. I'm so tired of it.

I know this is an old post. But I'm stuck at home atm with her and it's wearing me down.
I know that one (money managing).  My grandparents ran a few business, but neither of them were good with money so they've had accountants and money managers for decades!  When the GP asked about money management it was brushed off.
*hug* 

This sounds so tuff. My sweet Dad tends to still joke primarily with my Sis. Sometimes I’ll still try a joke or play his favorite music -&- he laughs unexpectedly or says something very clever suddenly. He’s had two strokes and slowly regained much of his function. Hang in there ❤️ your Dad is blessed to have you
Thx, dad is a narcissist. I believe what im seeing now is a mix of that and dementia and whatever his stroke did. No idea what drugs they gave him in rehab but he was high for a couple weeks, When he came home Mom said he was very different. He would just sit there and stare with no expression, scary. I came home from work one night about 8:30 and walked into the living room. Must have startled him cause he told me if he had a gun id be dead. Gee, thx dad. Theres alot going on and I wont bore you, lets just say i consider that I have no family after Mom passed. 

He doesnt quite realize that if I wasnt here if he was still alive he would be in a home somewhere. maybe he would like that better, doubt theyd papmer him tho.

Take good care.
I appreciate you sharing/apologies for my misunderstanding. You are all the more a rockstar for doing what you can to help. Stay strong!
You're fine. Its a difficult and involved situation and hard to explain without writing volumes. I sometimes wonder what it would have been like to have a 'normal' dad. 

Your dad sounds nice, music is great, ive read how it reaches people. I see it touch my dads heart at times. I know my favorites touch mine. take good care of yourself and the family.
