I can only tell you how I feel about myself, but maybe it will help. I have decided if I get dementia the first paperwork I am having drawn up is that as soon as it gets bad memory wise, no further treatment for anything. I'm pretty sure by then I will be on diabetes meds (I'm prediabetic) possibly more and I just don't see the point to trying to prolong my life in that state. I'm not being mean, I'm just staying that once my quality of life is over, what is the point to trying to prolong it with treatment? I've also told my child to put me in a home as soon as it's  needed and to not feel bad about it.
This sounds bad, but it’s not meant to be. Your dad is 92 and is going to die from something in the relatively near future. Why make the time he has left be full of fear or anger at various medical procedures?  I see nothing wrong in letting him have some peace for his remaining time. Dementia is difficult enough that you don’t need to add on anything that is a known stressor. I personally think you are giving him a gift by working within his tolerance level
I think you are doing fine.  

Dementia is hell for the patient.  It's reasonable to not take extreme measures to extend life, especially if those measure are extremely upsetting for the patient.  I think most people who beg doctors to "DO SOMETHING!" are mostly thinking about how they feel about the situation, not how their loved one with dementia feels.
I’m sorry you have to make this awful choice. It can be so difficult. 
Just give your support as much as is comfortable. You cannot force him without causing him emotional damage. 
If he were to become a danger to himself or his caretakers it would be a different story but he seems to not have the strength to actually physically hurt anyone.
It sounds like you’re already doing so much for him, and he is getting care from loving family and medical professionals. I can’t see forcing him to go to the hospital; you and your stepmom have made the right choice. You’re not doing a horrible thing at all. My heart goes out to you for having to watch your dad go through this. Don’t forget to take care of yourself.
What's the point of living forever if he has to be upset in the time he has left. What you and Stepmom have decided to do is merciful.
I've also told my kids multiple times to let professionals handle the situation if I follow my mom's dementia footsteps. My mom is already in a retirement community where she can age in place, and she also prefers this arrangement.  She wants us to continue our lives, not stop everything to care for her, and I want the same for my children.
Oh wow, the love you have for your children is extraordinarily selfless, bittersweet and beautiful
Thank you U/SelenaJnb!   That’s exactly what I need to hear, it’s not a horrible thing to do at all.  It gives him a peaceful life, free of undue stress and anger.  We would actually be carrying out his wish to be free of all the doctors and procedures.
Thank you!   Our decision feels cruel but I can see that that is not the way my dad sees it.  To him it’s a promise of calmness and relief.  Wow, thank you for showing me to think from his point of view.
Thank you for your reply, it is so helpful when someone understands.
Oh my goodness, thank you so much, your words are such a comfort.  I don’t know where I’d be if it weren’t for you and this community.  The direction to go, the choices to make are not always obvious and many times, like now, our decision feels mean but with your experience and wisdom I can see we are making the right decision.  

Thank you for wisdom and encouragement.
❤️🙏
