1. Really sorry to hear about this.   Quite a shock, for both of you.

2. However -- at least you heard about this now, while she may still be able to make decisions.  I'm not sure what you should do, but start communicating with her and get her to address this, don't let her just ignore it as most of us do with bad news.

What kind of a support system does she have?  Are there others who can take care of her?  Can you put together a team of people who care about her, who can at a bare minimum look in on her regularly?

I'm very sorry to say this, but if it's dementia, she won't "get better".  (Sugar-coating this wouldn't help you.)  The question instead is: how long will she remain as competent and capable as she is now?

It may be weeks, it may be months, it may be many years.  As they say, prepare for the worst, while planning for the best.

And even if you can't easily go back, "be there" for her emotionally.  Phone her, write her, whatever.  Send her photos and postcards.  Be a little more obviously part of her life than you might be normally.

Depending on how she is and how she feels, maybe even schedule a trip for the two of you, something she's always wanted to do.

Good luck.  And feel free to come back here with more questions.  Everybody's situation is different, but we share some of the same burdens, that others might not understand.  Take care.
* "Will it get better?"  It ONLY gets worse.
* "Should I go back and care for her?" I would say, no.  You will try and give 24-hour care when real care is three shifts of eight hours each.  It will wear you down.

I'm so sorry.
I was working abroad two years and did not rush back. We had a difficult relationship.  

She had the local church ladies and my brother nearby. Do you have anyone to check on her?  If you are earning money at your job, you can hire someone, as we dis.  

The issues for her were driving, cooking, and appointments.  Oh, and taking meds.  

Edited for addl thoughts.
I am sorry.  Did they start her on any meds?  There are a couple that might slow the progress.  

My mom (78 now) was diagnosed with mild dementia in Sept of 2019 with a score of 27 out of 30 on the Moca.  Fast forward to Feb of 2021, through the heart disease illness and death of my dad, moving to a retirement community, selling the farm and of course, covid, and her test score was 17... We go back in October... but now her only remaining sibling, and closest to her, is ill with cancer and severe heart problems, and I can tell the stress of that is affecting her abilities.  

This is just one example.  For some individuals, the process is MUCH slower.  It is important to find out what is causing the dementia.  Mom had an MRI in 2019 (I INSISTED it happen) and it showed the narrowing of the "memory" parts of her brain, which eliminated some other rather drastic causes.  If you know what is causing the dementia (there are several reasons) you can better treat it with meds and understand the typical progression.  

Good luck, and don't hesitate to get help.  This is a hard road to handle alone.
First, I'm sorry for such an early diagnosis and the shock to you both. 

On the flip side, you have time to educate yourselves and prepare for what's to come. And to hopefully get some of the harder conversations about long term care and end of life planning out of the way if she's in a good enough cognitive place for that. It is so critical for both of you, so that you can try to accommodate her wants/needs while balancing them with your own. It is only going to get more challenging from here on out, I don't say that to scare you, but it's a progressive disease. It works on its own timeline.

As others have commented, no, it is unlikely she will get better. But that doesn't mean there aren't things you can do to try to slow the process! Meds, cognitive activities, speech therapy, occupational therapy, socialization, etc. 

She might have good days and bad days - days where you feel hope and days where you feel frustrated and angry and sad. 

Ultimately you will have to make the decision about whether to move back for yourself. 

But the reality is... Caregiving is incredibly challenging, even moreso depending on what kind of behaviors your loved one is exhibiting and what you'll have to deal with. It takes a very special person to have the kind of composure to weather the ups and downs of it.

I think to myself all the time that I wish I could just quit my job and care for my dad and grandma in my home. And then my logical brain kicks in and reminds me that's not feasible if I want to keep pursuing my own dreams and aspirations for my life. It sounds selfish, but it's not. I couldn't honestly care for them in the ways they need. And I think it's so much harder for family members as caregivers because of all the emotional strings attached.

Read through this subreddit to hear stories ranging from somewhat mild to quite intense. It will give you a window into the myriad of things you and your mom might encounter through this.

Don't jump/rush to any major decisions just yet. Get as much of a read on the situation as you can. Do you know what her struggles are? Is she challenged by any Activities of Daily Living? What "symptoms" was she having that ultimately led to see a doctor and end up with a diagnosis?

The distance will certainly make it hard. I was 5 hrs away from my dad when he was diagnosed, and I worried myself sick over him while we tried to figure out our options and he continued to live alone. I can't imagine dealing with it all from another country, but that doesn't mean it isn't possible.

As others have mentioned, you're not alone in your struggles. We're all here for you, and I hope what you hear from us brings you strength to do what you can for her but also what you need to do for you. I know it's scary and overwhelming, but it gets easier to deal with as you tackle the challenging parts. Educate yourself as much as you can, start having the important conversations with her (if possible), and don't forget there's a whole bunch of amazing people in this sub who'll be here when you have questions or even just want to vent.
