I'm 31. My mom is about 6-7 years into dementia, and my dad has cancer (palliative care has been thrown around by his doctors) so I feel very similar to you, and actually appreciate the term anticipatory grief since I've never heard of it.

I am strong during every doctor visit for either parent, but my crushing blows were when the term "incurable" came up with my dad, and the statement "don't expect to see your mother the same ever again" from my mom's neurologist...within two months of each other. It was absolutely heartbreaking to hear, but ultimately knocked me enough to stop my denial and accept these diseases are gaining traction and are *GOING TO HAPPEN*.

I accept facts because I'm an engineer, but after hearing the facts I shut down emotionally to process everything (aka drink, cry, scream in my car, call my friends, etc) . Once my tantrum ends, I refocus and evaluate the facts. How to make efficient use of the time I may or may not have. I cherish every moment, good or bad, because these events and the way *WE AS A FAMILY* react to them will define the tone moving forward. My mother may lash out at me, but as a dementia patient she is easy to divert, and its relatively easy for me to forgive and forget given the circumstances. To me, a KEY factor in being a caretaker or even a trusted family member is YOUR ability to adapt to THEM. Old dog new tricks and whatnot. This allows me to deal positively with the anticipation that my mom and dad aren't getting better, but they are still here.

My mom loves cooking/baking, and yes there's a chance she may forget recipes, where the flour is, whatever. But in that moment when she is giddy about finding a new (to her) recipe, I latch on to it and go all in and we cook or bake and she is ecstatic. She says "TAKE MY PICTURE LOOK WHAT WE DID" and I just relish the moment and take the picture so that tomorrow when she forgets I can say look how much fun we had yesterday, what should we do today?! Do I know this won't last? Absolutely, but I sure as fuck won't miss out on that fleeting bit of cognizant thought before I lose her again. My way of dealing with that is, despite knowing what can happen, the things I can control in the moment can happen positively.

My dad loves cars. His cancer hasn't affected his mind at all, but it's physically wrecking him. He used to a '78 Z28 when he was a kid, a built MINI in the '60s, all that old school cool stuff. So what do I do to deal with my anticipatory grief? I say "alright old man let's get off the couch", I pack him into my upgraded turbo GTI for a drive. We get the road, cruise, he's smiling, I find a empty patch of road and I say "are you ready?" He says "What?" I say "*are you ready!?*" He says "yeah!" Then I just blow down this completely empty road so he can feel the rush of the cars he used to have (my car isn't that fast) and then afterwards we just cruise again. He's at peace, not stuck on his recliner. But he's still got an accelerated time limit on life, and I need to anticipate an earlier than expected death. Palliative care helps with this. My way of dealing with that is different than with my mom, mainly because my dad was a scientist and is cognizant. We discuss family matters, talk to attorneys, the whole shebang. It provides him peace that his affairs are in order, god forbid, and provides me reassurance that he's looking at the different possible outcomes (we're in the US so....). Financial stress is a weight on not only the patient, but the family. I'm blessed to have a father with foresight, and a love for fast cars. 

I have changed spoiled underwear, many early morning appointments and ER visits, stopped the stove from burning, dealt with depression and outbursts, whether from dementia or chemo...

How do I deal with anticipatory grief? I ensue that I have an understanding that those you may eventually grieve are still here and still able to love, hate, laugh, make fart jokes, cook muffins, whatever. We as children or caretakers may, for a short time, need to sacrifice...but that sacrifice will make the final years of your loved ones lives. 

Hug your dad, spend a few hours a week with him, call him, text him, send him puppy photos, memes, whatever. Do not focus on the fact your journey with him may be closing soon...focus on what you can do for him during the final stretch.
Oh I’m so so sorry. We are in very similar situations, and I could have written this post. You are not alone!! Every time we take a step down, I feel like I start the grieving process over again. Denial, anger, bargaining, etc. And then eventually acceptance. But the anticipatory grief is such a real thing and the anxiety around it is exhausting. I have felt completely disconnected for the last month…it’s like my brain is in full on survival mode.

My mom became bedridden about a month ago and only has a few days left. As horrible as this has been, I try to tell myself this is the most comfortable she’s been in a long time. No more anxiety, no more holding herself up in the wheelchair, no more being hoisted from the chair lift to the toilet…now we are focused on comfort care and allowing her to pass in peace. The grief will come in waves. Sometimes you’ll feel ok, sometimes you’ll feel the weight of the world. I think you made a smart choice to connect with a grief counselor, I should do the same. I won’t sugarcoat it, this part fucking SUCKS. But we play her music, talk to her, keep her mouth moist with qtips and lip balm, keep the pain meds coming. Take it one day at a time, you’re giving your father a priceless gift by being there for him. My thoughts are with you.
I look forward to answers to this. I’m struggling a lot with this right now.
I’m so sorry that both your parents have been stricken with such terrible illnesses. Universe, why? But you make a good point for living in the moment and doing what you can (at each parent’s level). My dad always loved classic cars, maybe if I got a car magazine or printed out some pictures we could flip through together. My mom is his primary caregiver, but I live close by so I try to stop by several times a week. And not that he can’t do as much physically I’m there more to help mom out. Trying to take advantage of the time we have. Hugs, friend.
Thanks, friend. I’m sorry about your mom, but I’m glad you can be there with her. Your comment about the sort of freedom (maybe that’s not that best word) that comes with being bedridden brings me some comfort for whenever that day comes for my dad. Every time we (or an aid) have to lift my dad from bed to wheelchair or vice versa I can see he’s really scared. He has no control of his body and people are just moving him, so I get why that would be scary. Especially if you’re already pretty confused about where you are, who’s with you, etc. 

May you find strength and peace as you enter the last stretch of this journey with your mom.
