Talk to your doctor about it. And if nothing comes of it and you still think it’s an issue and is getting worse, bring it later, like maybe in a year. 

What you described can be a sign of dementia since some (or at least one) starts with language difficulties. However, I am a couple of years younger than you, do not have dementia, and I experience language issue of regularly saying the wrong word. I am under an extreme amount of stress right now, as I am sure you are as well, so I think my mind is just fritzing a bit on the less important tasks so I can try to focus on the more pressing issues in my life. This could be the case with you as well. Talking to your doctor about this and having them do a mini cognitive test on you wouldn’t hurt and could ease your mind a bit.
My mom had a months-long decline in speech (probably from the isolation of the pandemic). She started mispronouncing longer words, hunting for words, transposing letters while writing. 

She had a brief episode where she literally couldn’t see letters, and i took her to an ER where they did a CT and then escalated her to a hospital for an MRI. She was seen by a neurologist, who ruled out stroke due to the symmetry of having the problem happen to both eyes at once. 

The only thing they found at the hospital was age-appropriate vascular damage. 
 

She did a followup with a different neurologist who said she had brain activity in line with high anxiety levels (she’s never been great at emotional management), and also generally low conductivity. 

 
My mom decided to go see a cognitive therapist on her own dime. They’ve had her meditating, are teaching her biofeedback, and are making her do rhythm work. 

It’s only been three weeks, and her speech sounds back to normal. 

I’m in this sub because my dad has dementia. My mom doesn’t. She’s 76. I tell you this because whatever’s going on with you may not be so bad.
It could be a combo of menopause and caregiver stress. I’ve noticed it happening to me since my mom has gotten worse over the past two to three years. I’m going to keep an eye on it incase I start getting worse but caregiving, menopause, and working full-time (up to 50 hours a week), I can see why my brain sometimes makes a bad connection.
The logopenic aphasia is a type of frontotemporal dementia that is characterized by word finding problems that get progressively worse to the point of loosing the ability to speak. But it is a rare disease.
It could be something simple, like eating too much sugar and other carbs. The book [Grain Brain](https://www.drperlmutter.com/books/grain-brain-by-david-perlmutter/) explains how this could happen and how to reverse it through diet.
