I feel for you! It's hard. My aunt used to do this when I visited her at memory care. I used to either deflect with a new question ("hey auntie, remember that time your sister drove you to college?") or say something like "we can't go now because we'll miss \[dinner, Jeopardy!, this card game I brought.\]" It didn't always work perfectly, but it helped.
A lot of times when a person living with dementia keeps wanting to leave without good reasons it means a few different things. First to check on if its actually an unmet need. A lot of times when they feel distressed it will tigger a fight or fight response. So they know they need to do something to fix that need but dont realize its a need and not a place. For example they need to use the bathroom but keep saying they need to go home. You ask if they need the bathroom they say no, but then say we need to use the bathroom before we go and they use it and no longer have a need. This works with hunger, bathroom, have nothing to do, at times even a sign of infection or pain they cant expressed properly. Another factor is if there environment doesn't feel safe to them. Lets say its a facility or a house they only lived in, in their later years. They dont feel safe because there is no familiaries to connect with. So include items and pictures in there environment from all stages of there life and it helps them to feel secure. These are just a few things to think about to help adopt and make her request it less.  

Best of luck!
I've had this same thing happen with my dad. A few times, I woke up to him fully dressed and ready to leave the house, insisting that "you said we were leaving". In these situations, my dad would throw yelling tantrums if he didn't get his way. Sometimes I would even ask him, "where did I say we were going?" His response was always "I don't know!" Your grandma's probably restless and her crying might be her way of expressing frustration or throwing a tantrum.

In my dad's situation, I will try to change the subject with something interactive - cleaning house, making the bed, laundry, pictures of family.... literally anything. If I cannot change the subject, I will be firm and consistent about my response and let him act out his emotion if needed. Usually his reaction is yelling, cursing, and screaming. If leaving the house is a part of my plan, I will try to walk with him so he gets tired. One big piece of advice that therapists have told me is to try not to take these interactions personally because it's a part of the disease. It's so hard when it's family but trust me, the erratic reactions and emotions will begin to wear on you less and less. Please hang in there and take care of yourself!!
I’ve seen it suggested here to ask where they want to go and then get them to talk about why they like that place - activating the memories of why they want to be there sometimes distracts them from wanting to get away from where they are. 

(I haven’t had to try that, but I have had to use a similar distraction technique - he wants to see one unavailable person, and I start talking about a similar friendlier person that he’s happy to think about - completely forgets the first person.)
* It's supposed to start raining soon 
* Tell her you have an appointment for it some weeks from now 
* The shops are already closed for the day 
* It's too hot to walk, you'll get heat stroke 
* shops are closed because of covid

She could well just be *bored* so try to find an activity or ask her about some story from her younger days
Ok, I’ve just got to do (random activity:let the dog out/make a call/organise some photos/make a sandwich/sort the laundry….bonus points if it’s an activity they can be heavily involved with!) then we’ll head off. 

Sure gran, we’ll set off after this cup of tea…. Then out come the cookies and oh, maybe it’s time for dinner! 

Try to redirect into another activity. Puzzles, picture books, painting (all the P’s lol!) 

It’s going to be repetitive! But this is where you dig down and find patience. Your response doesn’t need to be repetitive! And it can be as creative as you like! 

Remember, agreed and redirect!
when my Dad gets like this and I don't have time to take him anywhere real, sometimes i walk him to the mailbox, or kitchen, or wherever. or "let's have a snack first" or whatever. i distract w an action to get him out of the loop of wanting to go.

but what the other commenter said about how it could be an unknown  unmet need is also v true and important! (sometimes its the bathroom, or hunger, or just boredom.)
Perhaps just take her for a walk to sit outside or to another room.
It's a flat out lie but yesterday I told my mom that I rode my bike over so I can't take her anywhere. Worked really well.
all of this
Problem is she can't say where she wants to go. If you ask she rambles on and then asks if we're still going without stating a location
.
Just be prepared if they may become a flight risk. The one time I entertained my moms insistent rambling, I took her for a walk and she refused to come back inside the house. It was an ordeal to bring her back in. My big brother had to pick her up kicking and screaming inside. It’s one of my worst memories. This disease is terrible.
Perfect! She's looping round. For variety, is there any other prep that can be done before "going" somewhere?
