I'm so sorry for your family and for your grandma's loss of her cognitive function.

As for your mom, I'd recommend therapy. I know that that's kind of a bandaid reddit likes to apply, but it can really help with the transition from primary caregiver. Its really hard when you're burnt out and trying your best, and an outside party can help with that so much. 

Also, if your grandma has certain destructive behaviors, I'd recommend talking to the activities/life enrichment/community life staff at the home. Enrichment is one of the most important and overlooked parts of dementia care and they can work with you to discuss behaviors and methods of calming them if your mom isn't up to dealing bluntly with things. 

Sending so much love, I hope that your and your family's journey is as smooth as it can be.
I think the best aspect is they will keep her safe at a home. She will not wander at night and will be looked after by people who have experience with people like her. That may be helpful to keep reminding her about. And also they may give your grandmother some medications that may help reduce her anxiety and help her feel better. That's a better way to look at her being "drugged up".
Your mom shouldn’t feel guilty at all. I’m taking care of my mom. We’re at the end-stage. It’s really hard. Really hard. My mother and father expected me to take care of them which I have. My father died of pancreas cancer last year and my mother is dying from dementia. 

Dementia is a much harder disease to caretake. Cancer seems harder on the cancer patient but dementia is hard on everyone (caretaker and patient). It is both emotionally and physically demanding. To expect family to take of you just isn’t fair. Professionals get to go home at the end of their shift from this job but family doesn’t. We’re here 24/7. This is 24 hr care with no breaks. It’s nearly impossible to have a job and a normal life with this type of caretaking.

I don’t resent my parents because they didn’t know how demanding this job was to do because they didn’t take care of their parents. I loved my parents very much. My mother is a gentle soul but dementia really strips a person down. It’s hard to witness. It makes me think about what I will do if I get in this spot. I would never expect my children to stop their lives to take care of me like I have unless they(and their significant others) really want to do it. But even with that said, I will still make legal and financial decisions about my wishes before I become incapacitated so they won’t have to be wracked with guilt or financial burdens like your mom.
Definitely recommend a support group.  My Mum goes to one, will be going back now that it is reopened again and it helps to know you're not alone.  So many people go through similar situations.  The guilt is hard and compounded by the verbal abuse.  Easy to say not to take it personally because of the dementia.  And even with it I'm sure your grandmother is still pretty good at manipulating your mother.  Hearing other caregivers stories can help her realize this.  Wish you well.
