“Upgrade in care, better trained people, nicer place, quieter” etc. Say all the things she’ll actually experience without saying WHY she’s going there.

She’ll probably get bored of the description and let you off the hook. But the description will be nice, and true.
My father had dementia. When he went on hospice, we told him very little. He didn’t ask questions. I’m sure he understood he wasn’t doing well, but didn’t have the mental capacity to understand the specifics and, like your mom, would have promptly forgotten it anyway. 

We tried to do things we knew he would have wanted for himself at the end. 

We made sure he had last rites.  It was when he having a good day. He prayed with the priest, but if it really registered it was last rites, I couldn’t say. 

A relative spoke with him near the end and said something about the end being close. I couldn’t tell if he understood just what that meant. 

I don’t know if there are right or wrong answers here.  Chances are, the hospice does have a social worker you could talk to about whether and when to tell your mom certain pieces of information. 

It will be okay, I know it doesn’t feel that way right now, but it will be. I’m so sorry you’re going through this.
Hospice is about keeping someone comfortable. Physically and emotionally. Being that you're there to ensure this comfort, you will know the best way to make sure she remains comfortable. Check in with the social worker, chaplain, and nurse. All have good info and experience with this.
No, I don't tell my grandma she's dying, not that she remembers any of our conversations. I just tell her the doctors and nurses are taking care of her, and if she asks when she can go home, my dad and I just say it's up to her doctor and that's enough for her.
I am an RN and I work with people with Dementia. My professional recommendation is no, do not tell her. It is distressing to her and can continue to be distressing but in a way she can’t understand or process. 

For example, I have seen it happen where a well-meaning child tells their loved one with dementia that their spouse has died. The person with dementia is often incapable of fully grasping this concept and grieving in a healthy way. What happens is, what I believe, a kind of disordered grieving where the person with dementia starts having strange behaviours. They don’t remember that their spouse died if you ask them and the behaviours are usually not anything one would associate with grieving.  

I imagine that receiving news about one’s own mortality would be similarly traumatic and difficult to grasp/cope with. So it would likely only serve to prey on an already afflicted mind. At this time, strive for comfort and peace. The other advice given about focusing on what IS true is very good advice. Focus on the kind of care she will get. Why the care is better for her. What she will like about the new place. That’s what is important now.

That being said, sometimes people with dementia have lucid moments. If your mother has a lucid moment where she is more aware and she expresses to you maybe some understanding of her situation, then perhaps you could use that time to discuss any specifics with her that you think pertinent.  But only if you think she is in a place where she can process it.

From my experience, your mom just wants you to be with her.  Her life right now with dementia is just being lived in moments. And that can be a beautiful thing especially near the end. We strive so hard to “be mindful” and “live in the now”. That’s where your mom is. Enter her experience, talk about whatever is on her mind and just be present with her and enjoy your time with her. Don’t burden her (or hopefully yourself too much) with thoughts about what’s to come.

Take care
In my opinion you should only share things that will help the person. My mother has a medical background so telling her about her dementia diagnosis was helpful to her accepting her new surroundings and changed condition. If this will not help your mom, and will only lead to distress and anxiety, what is the point of telling her, especially if she will forget soon after? Some white lies about the move will likely be necessary to relieve anxiety around the new surroundings, if there is such.
No, don’t tell her is my advice. If she ever comes to realize she is dying don’t gaslight her either, just try to keep her distracted but make her feel loved. Feeling loved is the best distraction.
Telling her that she is moving to a different location is not a lie. Stick to that.
I don’t know the complete situation and don’t want to give you false hope, but I will share my story. My dad got really bad in March and was hospitalized for a week. He had been diagnosed a couple years ago and at that time they thought it was fairly advanced. He had a massive heart attack while at the hospital and they were fairly certain he had colon cancer but he was too weak to even do the testing because it would have killed him. He couldn’t walk or even swallow. They recommended hospice and gave him 3 months tops. My mom wouldn’t agree to hospice so we did home hospice instead. He has nurses and aides ghat come during the week to help and they sent a hospital bed with all the necessary supplies. He’s never going to get better and is certainly not thriving but he’s still hanging in there and is now able to walk, eat and care for himself.  So now hospice is extended. So I’m glad we didn’t tell him because he got a little better and is already obsessed with the idea of death.  Depending on your grandma’s severity and comprehension, she may get obsessed which could make what is potentially her final days miserable. 

Although this sub is full of kind people who are in a similar situation, only you, your family and her doctors know what’s best. Talk to the palliative team and ask them any and all questions you have. That is what they are there for and specialize in this. That being said, I would not tell her. Maybe you can explain to her that she’s going somewhere that they will be able to give her more attention and help her more. This is technically true because hospice is all about making them more comfortable.  Good luck.
Above Reddit pay grade. 

Talk to hospice social workers on how to address this.
Thank you for the support. 

She is a week or so from formally going into hospice, so I have some time to consult with the hospice folks also.

I like to get lots of opinions anyway, and all the responses here are helpful in one way or another.
Thank you. This is where my gut feeling was taking me, but sometimes hard to tell when my gut is protecting me or my Mom. Opinions from people who have been there are so helpful. Thank you very much.
Oh I've had that type of situation myself! My Dad, who had a mostly debilitating (physically) stroke in 2004, then in 2012 had a pulmonary embolism and cardiac arrest. 

He was in the ICU, an a vent, and Doctors were discussing 'final arrangements' with us before they tried to warm him up and take him off the vent. I went home from the ICU that night convinced it was very close to the end. 

The next morning I got to the ICU, and he was out of bed, in a chair eating breakfast with my Mom! He's at home to this day. Physically just barely able to walk, but enough so we could take care of him, but mentally A-OK. 

My Mom is unfortunately a different story. In addition to all the recent physical problems and poor physical health to begin with, she has rapidly advancing Alzheimers. She saw her own Mom go through a long battle with Alzheimers, and has always been crystal clear on her final wishes and how much intervention she (doesn't) want.
^^^ this is the answer.
Isn’t it crazy how differently it affects people. Sorry to hear about your mom and grandma but good to hear about your dad! I keep saying my dad is going to wind up outliving us all! He had a quadruple bypass 20 years ago with 3 stents since. He has had 2 heart attacks, one mild and the massive one recently. He beat prostate cancer a few years ago and has come back twice now from when we thought it was the end. It’s his sheer will to live and stubbornness! I also think he somehow manages to hold on because he wants to be there for his kids and grandkids.
