I have received calls for everything from a blister on my mother's heel to an altercation with another patient. I am glad they called and kept me informed rather than be caught off guard/think they were hiding something. I don't see it as anything suspicious or nefarious; I don't even think of it as a CYA situation. A place that didn't call would worry me plenty.

Hope you are doing well. This whole thing is wild, right?
As far as I understand, it’s part of the standard incident report procedure. We’ve had calls for everything from harmless falls to “she threw a glass of milk at another resident at dinner”.
I get calls about falls.  Sometimes my mom is sundowning and one of the staff asks if I can talk to her a bit, to distract her so she doesn't get too worked up.  

I got a call one time before I came to visit that another resident had wandered into my mom's room and my mom found her having a BM in HER toilet.   My mother erupted.   Staff assured her and me that they had disinfected everything and would keep a better eye on the woman.  It wasn't a big deal to me but it sure was to my mom.
We get a lot of calls.
I've been shocked by all the calls .... at times 5 times a day .... while I'm at work.  I've decided that it's a good thing because my mom is in a regular nursing home and I only get calls if they are headed to a hospital or something drastic has happened.   I wish the other nursing home was half as open as the memory care one is.   I always figured that they were sued for some reason and was always cover their butts.   I'm surprised but happy to see that other memory care units are the same.  I guess liability plays a big part since they can't always tell us what is going on and we sure don't want to hear it from another person about our loved one.
Thanks for the preview of my future. My wife is surely destined there, and if she gets half as angry with them as she does with me, my phone will be ringing a lot.
Thank you so much! You confirmed what my gut is telling me. It is wild indeed. It helps to have a sense of humor, that's for sure!
Thank you!
It would be to me, too.
