I'm assuming your wife has dementia?  Look up anosognosia. It is very common in people with dementia: they can not recognize their deficits. It's not denial. What you are doing will never be helpful and will only continue to cause agitation for both of you.  The friends and family that are not pointing out her repetitions are handling the repetitions correctly. You need to look at creative solutions for getting your wife to a doctor if that's what she needs. Ways that do not involve badgering her and trying to convince her that she has a problem when she will never believe it. Keep in mind there is no cure or treatment for dementia: nothing is going to improve her memory or keep her from asking you repetitive questions. There is a free resource available online that may be helpful to you: "Understanding the Dementia Experience" by Jennifer Ghent-Fuller.
Her brain is broken. If she doesn't remember what you tell her about the day's plans, how is she supposed to remember there's something wrong with her?

She's not going to remember words or events, but she will remember how people make her feel. If you're fighting with her or being impatient, that's what she'll remember.

It's ok to be angry and upset at what's happening to her, but directing that anger at her doesn't fix it. She cannot make herself get better.

Please see if there's a caregiver support group or education class (even an online one!) that you can join, because you could use some help and support.

Also, here's a definition of [anosognosia](https://www.nami.org/About-Mental-Illness/Common-with-Mental-Illness/Anosognosia) that may help you understand what's going on in her mind
I don’t know your wife’s situation, but I know my dad truly did not realize how bad his condition was. Have you tried coming to her from a place of concern, instead of frustration?

She probably thinks nothing is wrong because in her reality, nothing is. She doesn’t remember what she doesn’t remember, and therefore it never happened.

She may be more willing to listen if you approach her with empathy. I know it is exhausting, it is quite literally a full time job. But gently pointing out what is happening may be more eye opening to her. Saying things like “I already told you” can feel a little resentful and she may become defensive. Its okay to point it out, just make sure the intention comes through when you say it.

As for your friends, not that it makes it okay, but its heartbreaking and uncomfortable to be a voice in it. It’s very hard to tell someone their brain isn’t working correctly anymore. And it can be humiliating for the patient. Its no one’s responsibility or fault, we can only help because we care.

I’m so sorry you are going through this, and I wish you both the best. I hope she sees what’s happening soon enough.
Don't. Just don't. We all know how hard this is but you are making it worse. Worse for her and worse for you. She DOES NOT understand- you, explanations, directions or requests mean nothing to them. 

 You are probably right that she has a form of dementia of one sort or another but nothing you are doing right now is going to help. So couple of things stand out  - you need help, seek out support and help in any way you can. Read all you can get your hands on. If she point blank refuses to see a Dr you cannot make her but you can do something! Speak to her Doctor personally and work out a plan and that could be as simple as you making an appt for you and then taking her along with you or coming up with something that needs a review by Dr but take her Drs guidance on this.

Don't include others in this and those that have already noticed are dealing with it just fine. Accept this is inevitable, see it from her point of view, learn diversion and redirection and stop making your life more stressful because you are making it bad for you and her. Be kind to yourself.
"She acidly tells me to stop telling her “I already told you” and the like"...

And now I'm going to acidly tell you stop saying "I already told you"  "Don't you remember" "We just talked about this"

STOP THAT!

I 100% understand the urge to say things like that--I bite back SO many of those phrases--but it will only make things SO much worse.  There is NO LOGIC in this situation anymore, stop trying to force it.  Accept that you are now participating in a fake reality and you have to quietly manipulate it in a way to make sure your wife gets the care she needs.  She won't help you.  Pretty much no one will help you at first.  Make sure you have total LEGAL access to all her health and financial information, and start pushing to get her cognition tested and officially on record.  (My mom takes the MOCA test regularly to track her increasing dementia, she score lowers each time she takes it).

If your wife needs help, just get it.  No one has to be convinced she needs it if she truly needs it.
Depending on the person knowing vs not knowing may not make a difference. My mother did exacty the same as you describe. My long distance doctor cousin actually believed her rather than me even after the diagnosis. Took a call when she told him how the neighbors come in her house to move her dentures from room to room and how they steal her hearing aid batteries then plant them in her bed days later that he saw through it.

My approach was not subtle, we argued to the point where I took her to the Psychiatric hospital ER to get seen by a doctor. After refusing for the longest time she gladly went to prove me wrong. This worked even though it was a bit scary. They diagnosed her spot on there and then misdiagnosed at subsequent visits with the geriatric psychologists. She would tighten up, lie the entire time and be very eloquent which confused them. Eventually after things got really bad we got the right diagnosis and the meds that helped. She has a medical background so knowing kind of helped as she knew something is off. But she forgot often and required proof of it - eventually I gave up this dance.

My suggestions to you: get the diagnosis as soon as you can - this will help with your relatives a lot as they will believe you now; get her the right meds - of she is psychotic / agreessive / concerning delusions then antipsychotics if not, then the memory meds; start making changes around the house to remove triggers and make it safer for you; take over anything financial, keys, documents, etc. before a disaster strikes
Oh, so sorry, it's really hard, on everyone.  More on the care-giver.  So very frustrating.  :( 

Dementia .org and alzheimers .org for your area of the world have tons of resources, tips, helpsheets, booklets, telephone help-lines, etc on all aspects of dealing with memory loss, for the memory-lossed & their family / friends / carers.  You can get leaflets / booklets for friends & family too, of helpful ways they can deal with it.  

I often use notes for my mum, about the days plans.  I put a clear concise note on the kitchen counter of a morning  eg  "Lunch at favourite cafe 12:30 pm, Today"  or  " going to Kingston Park 2pm"  or "dentist check-up 10am Friday"..    It drives me crazy too, having to repeat over & over & over again.  

Best of luck!
Even when my Mom's friends started telling her (because I begged them to quit sugar coating things), she didn't remember them telling her. She would only remember the conversations she had many many years ago when they told her she had the best memory of the entire group. 

She's much worse now and still doesn't realize it.
No advice. I’m really sorry.
OP I understand your frustration so much. It's my mom with the dementia but I went through very similar frustration about her "denial" and also the denial of what seemed like everyone else when I KNEW something was very wrong.

My mom is now further down the dementia road than your wife. Here is my hindsight 20/20 advice for you and those feelings of intense frustration you have that others (including your wife) aren't getting it.

Let it go. Don't even think about them or their opinion of your wife's condition. When your wife denies that anything is wrong just go along with it. 2 = 2 = 5? Okay, then 5 it is. 

The reason is because nature will take it's ugly course without you doing anything at all. It's only a matter of time that your wife will not be able to fool anyone. Eventually dementia becomes obvious to all.

In fact those that doubt you now will think to themselves- yes, he was right. But at that point you won't care. You will be frying much bigger fish.
So at this point, I’ll work at not saying anything at all. 

Change my question - how do I get her to a doctor that she actually refuses to do? Even if I obtain guardianship,what do I do? Tie her up into the car? 

We have a good LTC policy, but without a diagnosis, it can’t be used and she won’t get the care needed. That’s the financial reality.
Well said.  Please listen to this advice, OP.
Schedule the appointment with her PCP, or if you can get a referral to a neurologist for diagnosis, even better. Don’t tell her about the appointment. Get her dressed to go out to breakfast/lunch and get her in the car. Drive to the MD, before or after your meal and tell her casually as you are going in that you just need to make a quick stop for her check up visit. “It’s a new insurance requirement.” Say “I’m sorry, I thought I told you” if needed (NOT “I had to lie because you’re so stubborn” etc). Have all of the symptoms you have noticed written down in detail for the doctor. Send it ahead of time and bring another copy with you to ensure the MD reads it before seeing your wife and to eliminate the need for you to say all that in front of her. If you haven’t done so already, have your wife sign a HIPPA form at the doctor’s office which will allow them to discuss her condition with you.
