Where are you located?
Hmm I think resources are going to be state-dependent.  I am so sorry. What a rough situation. Nursing may be your only option if something like a hotel is not one.
The fastest route will be calling adult protective services
Without being the POA or guardian right now, you need an available respite facility, money to pay them, and agreement from your parents in order for them to stay there. After you, or whoever, is named conservator then you only need an available respite facility and the money to pay for it (which should be your parents money).  Would they come stay with you, or another family member, for a "visit"?  And then you can give excuses and delays instead of letting them return to their home.
Hey! Geriatric social worker here! I’m not sure where you live, but where I’m from ALL assisted living facilities provide respite care.
I messaged you.
We already tried that multiple times. That is why we are privately pursuing guardianship.
Thank you 🙏
Would 'respite care' be a good fit for my parents? My father especially is having bathroom trouble (to put it lightly) as well as untreated type 2 diabetes. Who I have talked to at my local area agency on aging has said that level of care is a lot to ask of a family member when the guardianship takes place. We are concerned his health conditions aren't being taken care of.

Would respite care, along with my parents physicians and the nuero psychologist be able to give a good idea about what level of care my parents would require? 

Could my parents follow this path? 'Respite care' for evaluation -> placement at appropriate level of care  (Assisted living, NH)?
I'm sorry. I thought they could do more in such a case, but maybe it depends on the state
Their doctor would give you a great starting place of what level of care they recommend. For an expanse when our neuropsychologist give me a report, he always put his recommendations for care in it. He will either say “I recommend 24 hour care” or “I recommend an assisted living facility” ( where I live there are 2 levels of assisted living). 

Assisted living facilities are assisted care. It’s not round the clock care like a nursing home.
APS is having compassion fatigue due to the pandemic, according to the people I've talked to. It's all very sad.
Thank you! We are still waiting for the nuero psych report, should be any day now. Just waiting and worrying right now.
I’m so sorry you’re in this situation. I wouldn’t wish this for anyone. 

This is something to keep in mind. Where I live, assisted living can only provide so much care. As we know with dementia, it’s going to progress to the point they will eventually need rock the clock care. So, if the neuropsychologist recommends an assisted living facility, make sure and ask whichever facility you choose how long your dad can stay. Because some will require residents to move once they get to a certain level of care. 
Most assisted living facilities that have memory care will let residence stay for the remainder of their life. It just really depends. 

So don’t be afraid to ask questions! 
Caregivers are some of the strongest people I have ever met. You’re doing a great job! ❤️
