When my grandma had an in-home caregiver, if I was taking grandma out somewhere (lunch, shopping, etc.) I would let the caregiver know and they would either end their shift early, or take care of things inside the home, like cleaning. I've also had grandma take the caregiver out for lunch and pay for their meal. Just depends on the relationship and your preference.
I'm just trying to figure out how to get my father to just get someone in the house. He always says it's never the right time. But yet my mother suffers because he just ignores her until he wants someone to sit in the car with him, or go have dinner. So if he could have someone in the house take care of my mother and then say hey just hang out for 2 hours and maybe clean or do something we're going to go have some lunch I think that would probably work. Or if he wants to go have dinner just dismiss the person early, but he will still have to pay for their last remaining hours right?
It will depend on who you hire. If you hire a private CNA that just works for themselves, they may have more flexibility. We hired through Visiting Angels, and our caregiver was very, very flexible with her schedule. We did have to pay a minimum of 2 hours per day that she was there, but that no problem at all since grandma always needed at least 2 hours of care. But let's say she was scheduled for 8 hours but left after 6 hours, they would only charge us for the 6 hours. At the end, it all worked out because there were days that we needed her for extra hours and she was more than willing to help us on those days.
Ah ok. I'm trying to show my father that he can still have a life and get care for mother everyday, part-time, full-time it just needs to happen and he just doesn't know how to incorporate wanting to not be alone with helping his wife. If that makes sense.
Sometimes, you just gotta help them do it. This disease can be really, really difficult because it brings about so many life changes, and at times, people can feel overwhelmed and paralyzed. My dad never asked for help with helping my grandma until it was too late. Once I realized that I needed to take things over, I just did everything, and it greatly improved the mental and physical health of both my dad and my grandma. My dad is very grateful that I stepped in when I did.

Maybe present it to dad as a trial? That's what worked best with grandma when she was resistant to getting in-home care. I told her "let's just try this for a month and see how it goes" and she was really open to that. Do all the research, present 3 agencies to your dad and tell him, "Let's pick from one of these agencies." Don't ask, just tell. Sometimes, they just need a little bit of firm love to push them into doing what's best for them.
I called visiting angels today and got some good info. While it's not cheap it's also something I feel he needs. I'll be home in a few weeks and we'll talk it over and hopefully he will try help at least 1 time per week to start.
