Have somewhere for her to escape to and have a lie down, or a way for her to leave when she is ready. When I got married a few years ago my dad enjoyed the day but found it very overwhelming and ended up going to bed at about 8pm. 

Good call on eliminating the parent speeches - my dad wanted to say a few words, but got so stressed about it during the dinner and ended up backing out at the last minute. I still feel bad that I didn’t think to take away that stress from him.
I would consider hiring a professional caregiver for her that weekend. It will free up your father so he can participate more, and not have to worry about her every need on the big day.
When I got married we had all 4 parents sat at the top table with my sisters on a table facing my parents close by so if my parents needed anything my sisters could help. We invited a close friend of my parents who my dad was comfortable with so if we wanted to leave early my mum could stay and spend time with family. We had a sit down meal with meal choices already made, as there was only 24 of us we were in a fairly small room but i asked for no music to be played for a couple of hours, my dad also has hearing issues.
And congratulations on the wedding!
Thank you for asking this. My sister is getting married in the next 12-18 months and will be asking the same kind of questions.

Congratulations and bless you for being so thoughtful about your mom already!
My daughter got married last year. It’s all so stressful and I don’t have dementia. My advice would be to let her assume the role of guest. You are already doing some of this with no speeches. I would also recommend not having her come for a special getting ready moment. That may be stressful as she isn’t used to people fussing over her. 

Instead of making a big to do with her walking down the aisle to her seat, let your father walk her because she will be comfortable with that. Make that as low key as possible. If your dad is walking you down the aisle, have someone already sitting next to your mom so she isn’t alone when he then leaves to return to you. That person should know to quietly interact with her to keep her occupied. The goal would be for her to not be untended because she may not understand what she is doing in that front row with nothing going on but some music playing and everyone looking at her. 

Above all else, make sure the photographer understands everything. They need to know what to expect and also know the importance of getting family photos. I would get all of those after the ceremony of you think posing for photos will be a challenge. You don’t want her stressed when she needs to sit quietly during the ceremony.
Do you have time to try a dinner out with a medium sized group, and your parents, before the wedding? This might give you an idea of what her needs might be during your wedding, how she might act or react to a busy environment, and could prepare you for any disappointments on your wedding day.
It's always OK for her and your father to leave early because she "wasn't feeling well".  Lots of mingling probably isn't necessary.  

And your brother can step in at any time for your father's "wedding duties", as well (e.g. first dance).

You also don't want her feeling at all guilty if she does dip out early, though, so maybe it's worth explicitly saying to her that they can leave whenever she wants to, especially if the actual ceremony is done.

Good for you for thinking so much of her on "your special day".  I expect it will go fine, actually!

Congratulations, in advance!
Congrats on your wedding!

Obviously you know your mum better than I do, but I thought I'd offer a few things about my mum when she was earlier on her journey. Maybe they'll help you anticipate your mum's needs. 🤷

Anything out of the ordinary may cause distress. I took a train trip with my mum, and at one point in the night the train had to back up. By the look on her face you'd think she thought the train was being sent into a war zone. The rest of the night she stared anxiously out the window, clutching my arm. A wedding is not a normal day, and even though it's a happy event there may be sights or sounds that make your mum feel unsure or afraid. I read that you're at a hotel? Is there anything you can bring to the hotel/event venue that feels like home? 

My mum had trouble with sensory input. I remember driving with her behind a snow plow, and she was fixated on the lights. They didn't upset her exactly, but just like... Heightened awareness? I guess sensory stuff is not all that uncommon for folks with dementia. She also tended to see things in shadows... Often mice that didn't exist. If you're going to have a dj with crazy dance lights, or if the music will be loud, or even if dinner time has a lot of din, consider that these might be upsetting for your mum. Knowing a spot that is well lit and quiet could be a good thing for your dad.

Last thought is that sometimes change can be a catalyst for progression. My mum's friend invited her to stay the night in the city after seeing a play in the park. They had a nice enough time, but the next day after my mum was dropped back off at her home was the day she started having delusions about thieves stealing all her stuff. I don't think I realized at the time how much my mum had been relying on routine in order to appear normal. The break in routine had a significant impact. I don't have any advice about how to mitigate this, but thought it might be worth being aware of.

Congrats again, and hope you have a beautiful celebration!
So sorry you're going through this and your mom is so young for this. 

I'll just say that we took my MIL to some family funerals (her siblings)  and hired a day nurse. It was worth every penny. I know your dad can probably help out but he also deserves to enjoy your big day. In MIL's case, she couldn't toilet on her own so the nurse was handy for that, which is probably something your dad can't help with on your day. How is your mom on the toileting aspect?

The skilled nurse we hired was very discreet, seemed just like another guest. It could help ALL of you, including your dad, to relax and enjoy.
I remember when my own mom was in the early stages. My father was embarrassed for her. She was embarrassed when she was really understanding it all... but mostly she just smiled and tried to get along in conversation without anything being noticed. I respected her decision to not tell people. But this was a big mistake. Things became far worse from people not knowing. I understand your hesitancy to tell people, but you should consider maybe reaching out to your moms close family.... siblings? Cousins? Try to find like 2 other people besides your dad that will mingle alongside her. In case he has to use the bathroom, or someone is trying to talk to him and she walks away etc.. also idk how aware she is but if she's still aware she may feel less like your dad is babysitting her. I wouldn't tell her you're doing this... let her save some face, but make sure they are aware of her condition and be blunt about where she is memory and behavior-wise.. maybe think of a few fond memories they can bring up if she starts getting upset or confused. I don't know your mom, but with my own mother she was typically pleasant around larger family events, but dementia changes everything. 
After years of practice I learned to tell people to think of a funny story they shared---  stories to bring up in case they needed to distract her out of a bad moment. I wish we had told our family and friends sooner... I'm sure they would have made more of their time together while she was lucid had they known. Dementia is terribly difficult. Im sorry your family will know this path.. Get as many pictures as you can of you both together on this big day. You will look back one day and cherish them. 
Good luck to you, your dad, your husband and all 💜🙏
Thanks for the advice, we do have a hotel room on site so I'll have to offer that as a nice space to relax!

Also, the lack of speeches was a request from my dad, and luckily the mother of the groom didn't really want to do a speech either. Speeches are pretty boring for guests anyway.
That's a nice idea for someone with advanced dementia, but my mom and dad are still very private about it; I'm not even sure that they intend to tell extended family about it ahead of time. One of my main concerns is not to embarrass my mom.

However, I will make sure my brother sits with her during the ceremony so my dad can walk me down the aisle!
Or instead of a pro, whom she may not remember or recognize, have someone be your dad's day-of helper.
I was going to suggest the same thing, but if this is still a pretty private thing then just make sure you have backup help. 

Your brother to sit with her while Dad walks you down the aisle is great. I would suggest having anyone else she recognizes and trusts who can be “on call” to jump in and help if needed. It might make everyone feel more comfortable and lower your stress on the day. 

A wedding is a long, stressful and tiring day for the best of us, this will be exhausting and overwhelming for her.
Would you look at that, all of the words in your comment are in alphabetical order.

I have checked 186,585,026 comments, and only 45,045 of them were in alphabetical order.
Thanks, that's all really good advice.

I think I might still want to invite her for a moment before the ceremony, but I'll talk to my dad to see if he thinks she's up for it. I think she would be hurt if I excluded her, and it may make it easier on her to get her hair and makeup done professionally. I'll definitely plan for the bridal party and mother of the groom to leave for lunch during this, and build in extra schedule time so it's not too chaotic, just gotta figure out the logistics.
Someone below was talking about a close family friend that came to their wedding. Do your parents have any close friends that are aware of and sensitive to her condition? Even if you’re not close to the friend(s), it would allow someone else to be there in case anything happened.
Would you be embarrassed?
Good bot!
