I am sorry you are going through that and aren't able to honor your grandmother last wishes.

I had a similar situation happening to me twice last year, I was also very angry about it and some guilt. It made me see my family in a different light.

On the other hand, in both situations the care taking and problems (mentally and physically) were getting too much. While difficult, at these points it's not only about grandmother anymore, but about the care takers as well. Being a caretaker is not easy at all, and there is a point when the situation gets too difficult to handle. I assume your aunt reached that point. It does sound like your grandmother is physically not well. Dementia can also make every day life very difficult, even small things can become a struggle. Your aunt may not equipped to deal with all of this, physically, materially, and emotionally. Care taker burn out is real. It might also be very stressful for your aunt to see your grandmother (her mother?) getting worse...

If you have a good relationship with your aunt, talk to her. Try to understand her point of view and position. You don't even have to fully agree with her, you might have done different, it's how it is, we are all different people.

Your grandmother is still here. Visit her as much as you can, want to, she wants to. Even in the darkest days you can still brighten up some moments.

In the end you will have to accept what has happened, and what is going on now. Make the most of it. 

Also keep in mind, the people at her new home are there to help your grandmother. They might be able to offer her some comfort she wasn't able to get at home (f.e. tools and furniture, 24/7 care, medical staff,...). She isn't at a bad place per se.

Sometimes life isn't ideal, and we have to accept situations that hurt us. Bad things happen. How much it hurt to see your grandmother like that, you will have to accept this is the current situation. It does sound like your grandmother is unable to accept it as well (very understandable!), but unfortunately life can take these turns, and you can help your grandmother by helping her cope. You can be there for her, visit, soothe, listen to her stories and why she doesn't want to be there, you don't have to disagree. Being heard does help. You can interact with compassionate responses such as, 'I know you don't want to be here, and I would have wanted it different as well, but for now this is the best solution' or something like that. While you feel guilty about playing a part in her ending up here, you did help your grandmother cope at that moment. Sometimes we have to make difficult decisions for others (like calling medical staff), or carry a burden for other people (like grandmother not accepting her life events).

We can't take away all pain from loved ones, even if we wished to be able to. We can't prevent their lives from taking bad turns. No matter how you see it, it is nobody's fault your grandmothet has been physically ill lately, and has been dealing with dementia. Not hers, not yours, not your aunts. It is a sad chapter in her life. And unfortunately we can't keep these from happening. It's her life story. Her new home might try to make that bad chapter as positive as possible, you could also take a role in that if you want to.

It would have been similar if your grandmother was dealing with a life threatening disease and was taken away to a hospital and had to stay there, bedridden. Nobody wants to end up like that, or see their loved ones being in such a situation. It might be easier to accept, as it is more confronting and undeniable. It would also be impossible to bring the loved one home, how much they even wanted to, but at home you just don't have all the tools and staff etc and life would be very miserable. It's heartbreaking for everyone involved, but it's just the way it is. It might help to draw a parallel to your grandmothers situation... No she isn't bedridden in a hospital locked to her bed with tubes and parts. But she is still dealing with ilnesses and elderly difficulties that make it difficult for her to keep living at home. Heartbreaking, yes.

It might also help, if you are not familiar with dementia, to volunteer in a care home or ward with dementia patients. Sometimes it are just the small things that make dementia difficult to deal with, difficult from outsiders to see, but stressful for the caretaker dealing with it. You would also see patients that are seemingly ok on the outside and present themselves very well (perhaps also angry to be there because they don't need it according to them) , but once you are more engaged you might see how for these people living alone would be impossible as well (f.e not knowing the way back to their room, using a fork or needing instructions on how to eat, etc). It might help with getting a bigger picture. Or understanding your aunts perspective. But only if you feel emotionally strong enough for it, as it won't be easy, and probably very confronting as well.

I wish you and your grandmother well. Regarding the situation, I hope everything plays out in the best way possible.

Take care.
As her caretaker your aunt is in a strong position to say when she has had enough. Your grandmother fell twice while in your aunt's home. She now has a UTI and pneumonia. If your aunt does not feel she can handle this part that's ok. 

Visit grandma much as you can, bring pictures and share stories in her language, and try to release your guilt and anger. They don't help your grandma and there is no perfect ending to any life. There is often suffering. Your grandmother dying in your aunt's house was not something your aunt could handle, and that's ok.
That's a very tough situation. Sorry you're having to deal with that.

Keep in mind that your Grandma may not be in a position to know what's best for her. And, the demands on your Aunt may have been dramatic and horribly stressful especially after your Grandma had two falls and is now apparently quite ill. 

Your Aunt may have just felt that she wasn't up to the demands that were being made and those that were yet to come as your Grandma's condition potentially worsens. 

I'm currently the primary caregiver for my father with dementia and I can absolutely see a situation that might play out similar to this where he becomes very ill and I'm overloaded with the stress and tasks required for care. I'm not a professional caregiver -- I'm just his son. And, I could see him demanding to stay at home when I know that I'm not capable of the care he needs. Very similar to the situation you've described. 

In my case, I'm prepared to bring in a professional caregiver soon for my father to alleviate what is becoming too much for me. Your Aunt may not have been in a position where she felt she could do that.
Dementia does not increase exponentially but UTIs can cause this.  Unfortunately, so can bad falls.  I do recommend treatment for her UTI and pneumonia at least as she should hopefully improve cognitively (at least somewhat) once it is fully treated.  However, at 100 years of age, things don't always work that way and pneumonia is rarely survived :(.

If she does improve, perhaps your aunt will let her back into the home.  It also sounds like she may not have an ideal medication regimen.  What is she sedated with when she becomes upset? Benzodiazepines(can cause confusion and a lot of drowsiness) or strong antipsychotics (can cause parkinsonism) don't go well with 100-year-olds.

We typically give our patients a well-tolerated SSRI (like Zoloft) and a low dose of Seroquel (atypical antipsychotic) to help control behaviors and anxiety and avoid parkinsonism.  

This sounds like a tough situation, I am sorry you are going through this.
beautiful advice to a very tough problem. Prayers are with you.
