The only thing you can do is redirect. Tell her Vern called again to say she should take today off. Play it out if you need to: actually make the phone ring, pick it up and pretend he’s on the phone. 
Telling her she’s retired won’t help. It will only upset her.
Try the tactics in this episode of the Dementia By Day podcast. Likely she is expressing a need for something. A need to DO, a need to be productive, maybe even hunger/boredom! This podcast example is in response to "when can I go HOME" but I think the techniques could be really helpful for you. Throw her roadblocks, redirect, etc. 

The phone call from boss bit is super challenging. When I've run into that with residents, there is NOTHING I can do to change their mind & anything I say, like "your boss called me & told me to tell you to stay home!" just upsets them further. I think asking questions like "tell me about what you need to get done at work today?" might be helpful in giving you some clues. Maybe try letting her direct you to what will work in terms of distractions. If she gives you any ideas, make your own version of "paperwork, cleaning, etc" to do at home and tell her it's "to get a head start." Or if she clearly has no direction she plans to take it, try folding laundry together or doing a task & use the phrase "before you go to work, WILL YOU HELP ME WITH ____?" !!! "Will you help me?" has saved my LIFE in my dementia care career. Sit back & follow where she leads you! Best of luck, this sounds so frustrating! 🥺 


https://open.spotify.com/episode/5R2eEBlsSRdj2SUWqS5xZ4?si=lOe7zZ9VRaKsKnXxaSlLPQ&dl_branch=1
This sucks. My grandma did the same, but just to escape. Good move with the lock on the inside of the door. That's such a difficult step to take, but I think it's the safest. I had to deal with the same every few hours she would try and get out, get upset about the lock, and go on and on about how I'm keeping her prisoner. After almost 2 years of this, she took her cane and smashed the window. It was 112 degrees outside and it cost $500 to fix the glass same day so we wouldn't melt in the hot weather. After this we told her doctor, and they gave her [https://www.webmd.com/drugs/2/drug-63989/escitalopram-oxalate-oral/details](https://www.webmd.com/drugs/2/drug-63989/escitalopram-oxalate-oral/details) She has been taking it for 4 weeks now. She used to be a roaming tornado in my house until we gave her this medication. She is so tired from the meds she sits up in bed to eat and drink and then go back to sleep. It's not the best, unfortunately, but I would rather she sleep all day in her own bed than break every part of the family investment before she passes. We were burnt out from her constant harassment, and now when I wake her for lunch and breakfast she calls me angel and says she loves me. She literally attacked me every breakfast until we started the meds. Medicating them is a hard step to take but I wish we did it sooner. It's really the only way to stop the moods.   


  
Redirecting them is great, but can be difficult if you are not a trained caretaker for people with intellectual disabilities. It's IMPOSSIBLE when they are charging with a weapon. Be very careful because the behavior you are describing will likely evolve towards violence. They think they are having their life or death last stand and whoever is present will be on the receiving end.
When my neighbor went through this with her husband, she started taking him to adult day care. He was convinced that he worked there!
I had a similar situation with someone I provided care for. We bought her work clothes and would tell her that her boss was ill and had sent a packet of things to work on from home just for today. We would have her “file” “write” “answer phones” and we just tried to make the situation engaging. What is your mother doing for work? Could she use papers stacked? Towels folded or something that could be managed.
What stage is she in and what meds is she on? If she is taking meds, time to speak with your doctor to tweak dosage or meds. If not, a consultation is overdue. This type of anxiety is not only taxing for family but also highly distressing to the dementia sufferers. Another thing to think about is removing triggers and stressors - i.e. if her bag reminds her of going to work take it away. We had similar issues and worse - with no triggers, the right regimen of anxiety + memory pills and with adult day care this is almost 100% under control.
can "Vern" tell her to work from home?  Maybe he "called" you and asked you to pass along this message to her.  Give her a bunch of papers to shuffle around and do stuff with.
It is possible to "take her work"? Either drive her around the block or go for a walk?
[Coping with dementia](https://www.reddit.com/r/coolguides/comments/k8gmn3/how_to_treat_people_with_dementia/?utm_medium=android_app&utm_source=share)

I found this many years ago but I have only just worked out how to properly share it here. However it is readily available here on Reddit so I have borrowed it. This works, it helps, it is a guide but it does help so much.
My grandma does the exact same thing. She's worked so hard that I'm not surprised that work is one of the few things she remembers. 

Usually I tell her that "Today is Monday, you work tomorrow." Or "The boss called and said she's giving you a paid vacation for working so much." If she's persistent, I get her dressed and drive her around to various places for an hour or so unless she forgets. 

Sometimes I bring some basic homework and ask if she can help me with my assignments (she wants to feel useful. Even if she makes no sense i just pretend she's right). We had to put a lock on our door too. It's rough, man.
True, trying to change her attention to something else is the best way. Please don’t try to rationally explain her anything. You have to lie, unfortunately.
Yea my grandma while she hasn’t hit anyone yet I notice she has become more and more aggressive about going to work then she used to be. Before she would just sit there and be sad and complain but now she has started to cuss and get angry at us.
Excellent advice. I also went through the window breaking phase (x5) and even more dangerous activities like jumping out of said windows and cutting herself on the glass (thank God it was a minor scratch). Cannot understand why some chose not seek medical help to relieve these dangerous anxieties and behaviors and only partake in elaborate redirecting schemes. I don't know many working adults who can take dementia sufferers for pretend drives to work every few hours.
I know she is on some pills but I’m not sure which because my mom handles that stuff also because of covid she had not been able to see her doctor too many times so I don’t know what stage she is in but she is very forgetful she ask me everyday what time I’m going to work with her and when I tells her I don’t even have a job 2 minutes later she’s asking what time we start. She also can’t cook or be left alone in the kitchen anymore because she has no idea what’s she’s doing anymore and makes a mess. She also doesn’t remember that’s lot of her family had passed and always brings them up. So maybe in the mid or late stages.
We’ve tried usually she will go outside then “decide” not to go to work but once we get back inside 10 minutes pass and she’s right back to getting ready for work.
Thanks I’ll give it a read
Sounds like mid stage but I don't know. I think there is a good likelihood to find a med regimen that will help reduce the anxiety. Another step is to reduce possibilities of problems - lock the kitchen if possible, or have her stay in a certain part of the house where she can get into fewer dangerous situations. Make some modifications (e.g. mom kept clogging the sing so I installed a filter the cannot remove; I only give her devices with auto shut-off e.g. coffee machine). 

With Covid our access to doctors has been better and easier than ever before - we have a monthly call with the psychiatrist via video and the family doc is available by phone. I think there are many things you can do on this situation - start with getting an appointment with the doctor as soon as you can. 

Redirecting every two minutes is clearly not working so new solutions have to be explored. Here we have a behavior unit you can get help from via the heath authorities - they are tough to book but very good and through when you get the assessment. Or you will need to think of nursing homes if no meds, modifications to facilities or behavior modifications work.
I learned this early on and it does help. I promise! I don't lie about anything but I learned real quick to tell real porkers! I learned to read Mum and found out what worked and what didn't. Good luck and we are all here to listen.
