To be honest I don't know what the textbook answer is, but I just go with it and humor them. When my mother says something weird I just answer oh I see and then try to steer the conversation away from that topic, I don't think correcting them or explaining that they're wrong will be very fruitful or constructive
What I find is that what you say isn’t the most important thing. You need to be super calm and reassuring. 

I started off trying hard never to lie to her, but it’s not sustainable. I just try to keep any lies as simple and benign as possible. 

I tend to agree with whatever she’s saying. If she wants to go home I generally tell her I’ll get it arranged tomorrow. 

It’s not easy, and you won’t always get it right, but you do your best.
Humor her, like a child. Centuries ago, senile dementia was called "the second childhood". The cognitive decline reminded people of small children. It's a very fitting term. We know how to humor kids, we have to learn to humor dementia patients.
The 1st rule of caring for someone with Dementia: do not argue with them. They can circle an argument better then most lawyers. Enter her world when it comes to seeing her mum/people that are not there,  talk about her memories of that person, if that person is dead don't tell her unless she asks. The wanting to go home is about feeling safe and not thinking about the memories they have lost.
The professionals in the memory care unit I saw used gentle cajoling and humoring. I agree with most of what's been written.
To be honest, I just "play along" and never contradict her. I keep an eye on my phone or tablet, and keep reading, occasionally nodding or agreeing. She doesn't notice. It's often an anecdote I know by heart. She doesn't seem to notice or mind.
Yup that's a familiar one too, I can watch a whole show on tv while nodding and saying yes while she tells me the same story I've heard 9000 times before
Don't feel bad for it. The person is just reminiscing on the memories that they have retained, the oldest ones. They want to show others that they still remember some things.
