As long as he’s not distressed by your redirection, I think it’s fine. You’re merely reorienting him to time and ensuring good sleep. If he’s ever distressed by this, then you’ll know not to push it.
My ex mother in law used to get up early in the morning, we’re talking 3-4 am. She would dress up, and would make her way to the kitchen. I’m a light sleeper so I would be laying on the couch waiting for her. Like clockwork she come out and I would approach her. Ask her what’s going on?? She would say “I have to go to work. The bus will be here any minute” 
I would always give her the same response. “Oh good, want me to make you some tea? You know I can drive you to work if you want. At what time do you start?” 

She would agree to me taking her to work. I would tell her to go back to her room and take a quick nap. I would walk her, help her back into bed and she would fall asleep. I would turn on some music to soothe her. That was our routine for almost a year.  

You do what you need to do. Talk to him let him tell you why and follow his thread. The 36 Hour Day book was very useful and taught me how to understand her world better.
I try to do the same with my grandmother. She can't be up alone as she gets confused and really upset. If it's before 7 AM, I try to get her to go back to bed after she goes potty. Most times she will, but if she refuses, then we go to the living room recliners and I hope she'll go back to sleep there.
Sometimes grandpa wakes up few hours early and starts the morning routine. I'm a very light sleeper when it comes to him, so I wake up directly. I simply go to him acting sleepy. He gets surprised and asks is it so early. When I say yes, he goes back to bed to nap.

I don't think what you do is harmful. You're only looking to their benefit. Just don't push them too hard or be rude.
Yes.. its 100% ok that you had him go back to bed. I'm glad he took it well.
You need not feel any guilt over it whatsoever.
Dementia effects everyone differently, and it kind of takes over the person's life, as well as their caregivers lives, especially as it progresses. As long as grandpa is safe, it's all good.
One day he may not be so understanding about it, so get those extra zzz's while you can.
This is absolutely an ok thing to do, especially if his morning meds have a schedule. Routine is also important, and waking up too early can lead to new naps or going to bed too early, which can throw a routine out of sync really easily. And lack of sleep affects everyone's cognitive abilities, and is more pronounced in dementia. What you did was perfectly fine :)
My mom did this all the time. We finally got her a dementia clock for Christmas, it not only had the time it also had "morning, afternoon, evening, night" so she didn't wake at 3 in the morning thinking it was much later in the day or nap in the afternoon and wake, deciding it was morning and go pestering my brother for her morning meds. It helped quite a bit.
Loved this response!
