No, you aren't doing him a disservice at all.   Dementia makes it all but impossible for its sufferers to process new information.  Most professionals recommend that you live in their world as much as possible.  Agreeing with your dad that his parents will be home next week is a kindness to him.
The kindest thing you can tell him is a little white lie, like they decided to stay an extra week, or their plane was delayed, but they’ll be home soon. It feels odd to lie, but it will help with some of his agitation. You may also consider ending the visits to the old house to reduce his distress. Assure him they’re having a good time and will be home soon. He’ll still probably ask every day, but keep your answers upbeat (“I can’t wait to hear about what they did on their trip! Wanna watch some tv, dad?”) and you’ve addressed his immediate concern.
My grandmother was pretty far gone in her dementia when my grandpa passed. She’d spend her days asking “Where is Joe”, and then reminding herself he was “fishing with Ed”. This was comforting to her, but also terribly sad, because my uncle Ed had passed about 10 years earlier. We just always agreed with her, but I felt like in a way she knew they were both gone.
If you think about it, reliving the death of your parents every single day is heartbreaking. You could even consider it a blessing that your dad doesn’t remember their passing, that he’s blissfully unaware. Meet him there instead of trying to bring him to your reality. The most important thing is that he be content, whether it’s in reality or his own reality.
This was one of the moments recently that made me realize that I needed to bring in a professional caregiver. Not every day but many days my Dad asks where his Mom or Dad is and I have to remind him that they've passed on ... a long time ago. As I've mentioned on this sub a few times, I was prepared for the physical decline and willing to stick it out until the end. The mental side of things has overwhelmed me with it's demands and, frankly, I'm just not equipped to handle everything he needs. Really sad to hear that your Father is also experiencing this. It's very sad.

Btw, to answer your question more specifically, so far, I've told him the truth. I tell him his age and that they passed away a number of years ago and we start talking about the details of that and he generally starts to remember some of it. Some days are better than others and he remembers more quickly and with more detail. Always sad though.

But, he doesn't forget it every day either. However, I understand the trajectory of dementia and that it's never going to get better. Only peaks and valleys on the way down.
When your Dad brings them up... maybe tell him that their flight was canceled, or they're having so much fun they're staying a few extra days, etc. Telling him the truth will only bring hurt that he won't be able to understand or cope with. I'm so sorry you're both going through this. 🙏
The advice I got was to use that old improv rule **Yes And** when having a conversation with someone with dementia**.** When someone makes a statement, agree, and go on with it ("Yes, and..."), instead of disagreeing ("No, but...").

For example, my mother occasionally asks me how my mother is doing. Initially I would insist that she was my mother, but that sometimes distressed her, and so now I just say she's doing very well and I see her a lot. Then she asks me to bring my mom flowers from her, and everyone is happy. 

And if mom forgets that her favorite brother passed away, we're sure as hell not going to remind her. If she asks how he's doing we'll say he's fine. Because if we tell her he passed away, she's going to go through all her grief again...and will have forgotten by the next day anyway. Which means that we have the choice of either forcing her to re-experience that grief every day, or of letting her think that he's still alive and doing fine. The latter is far, far kinder. 

Same goes for your Dad. Let him think that they're coming back next week. Don't make him grieve for them every time he remembers them.
Our maybe you tell him he's going to go meet them somewhere and you're  just waiting to find out when and where. It's almost true.
Be a guest in his reality when he can no longer be apart of yours. We have the capability to be a guest and step back out when we choose. And they can no longer do so.
You're doing the right thing. I know it feels like you're doing something wrong, because it is a lie, but he can't deal with the truth at this point. As you've seen, even if he briefly recognizes that they're dead, that recognition will pass - but before it does he's going to get agitated. Correcting him will just put him through the wringer of ignorance-agitation-ignorance-agitation-ignorance-agitation. Just let him stay ignorant. Both you and he will be happier.
Absolutely. My dad has late stage dementia & he tells me that his mother fed him last week. We go with that.
These little lies are called love lies, told with love because you don't want to hurt your LO.
