Ask her GP or general doctor. Did you have a basis for your advice? Some people need their long term medication.
When you say "worsened," that's too imprecise for us know enough to be helpful.
She may have PAWS or Post Acute Withdrawal Syndrome. Talk to your doctor ASAP and tell them she was on Xanax for 20 years.
Is she depressed from stopping a 20 year long medication and routine. Depression can cause dementia like symptoms
She was not medicated. My father gave her xanax decades ago and she got kinda addicted. She says she has taken one pill every day for twenty years. I just told her to stop because it seemed common sense to me, but now it doesn't seem like an obvious decision.
I don't see her being depressed, she doesn't ruminate or show any signs of being low on mood. Her emotional affect is diminished. Meaning she will smile kindly and communicate but her face will be blank otherwise. Even her eyes seem primal, like the personality behind her is faded. She will respond and understand everything I'm saying and will have a temporary emotional spike for the moment, but I can't reach her truly anymore because she is no longer 'in' the flow and sharp like everyone else. She once very much was sharp and present.
Can she still keep track of money, follow simple recipes or instructions? Sometimes this can be early signs of dementia. 

But honestly what you described above does also sound like depression. 

I don’t know your relationship with your mother, but if it’s good maybe sit down and have a chat to her first and see how’s she’s feeling personally and about stopping the Xanax.
She can keep track of money. She can follow simple recipies. She even rememberd and continued a conversation we stopped midway today, when I returned from having to use the bathroom. So there are signs that she has good memory in certain areas of life. I will check out if she is depressed and her xanax stoppage has anything to do with this. I actually discovered her xanax use because I mentioned her listlessness and her inability to maintain a straight tangent in conversations.
I wish youse the best and hope you can find some answers. Hopefully it may only be depression and not dementia.
