Does not sound like dementia.  You need a complete blood panel done. Could be premenopausal. Could be thyroid. Here's the thing. Finding the right Dr to help you! Many go by labs and not how u feel. Of I went by my labs,  I'd be a mental train wreck. That's a good place to start. I use Defy Medical in Florida.  They are great.  You pay out of pocket.  I get thyroid meds from them and hormones.  Technically at my age,  I was in " normal range " for my age. A regular Dr would say that I could get cancer or have other health issues.  It's quite the opposite. Give them a call. Let me know how you make out!!
Clinical depression can mimic symptoms of dementia including memory issues, affect, and executive function and cognitive impairment AND it can (if left untreated over long periods of time) lead to similar hippocampal atrophy. 

SSRI's/Antidepressants have been shown to both improve cognition, and improve neural health in patients with clinical depressive and anxiety disorders. Several SSRI's are being targeted now in studies for their potential neurogenesis/regenerative effects in patients who have clinical conditions with cognitive impairment. 

It's your life and your decision but we have 70 odd years or so of clinical evidence showing benefit in well being for anti-depressants, and 20 years or so of studies showing broad improvements in cognition and a neuroprotective effect in those taking them. I'd highly encourage you to become super informed on Antidepressants both from a historical and research perspective before dismissing them. 

Just think about it - if you had access to an array of substances that you could try where-in the right match would significantly improve your cognition, mood, well being, memory and symptoms of depression, anxiety, and depersonalization why would you not take it?
I would but I’m in the U.K.! and the nhs service here is notoriously bad for any kind of mental health testing. Even on my gender based things my doctor told me I’d feel like a woman again if I started making an effort to dress pretty 🙄 and he’s the one that said 65+ on this too. Told me it’s just depression.
If you are on Facebook,  join Bio-identical Hormone Replacement Therapy.  There are women in there from the UK as well and could guide you as where to start. They've said the same thing as you.  Like I said, finding the right Dr is key.  They are out there, just few and far between that believe in the right thing. Another group that is good is Women's Health and HRT. Great people there too!
