There are some wearable GPS trackers you can purchase but honestly all of the ones I tried were a hassle, especially when it came to keeping them charged. The first thing I did with my dad was buy him a military style dog tag that had his name and my address and phone number. I am sure that there are more jewelry type options here but my dad was former military and liked it so it worked well and he never too it off. I also made sure that his phone was set up to share location with me and my wife. I am sure there are other options but that’s what we did. Near the end we needed to prevent him from leaving the house, so we ended up putting a child lock thing on the knob and keeping the gate for the back yard locked with a padlock. So this way he was able to leave the house but he was contained in the backyard.
Sounds like you’re right to be concerned about flight risk. I once lost track of my grandfather when he said he was going for a walk around the house but instead hitch hiked to his old home in another city, which was a harrowing experience for all of us. It appears that a kind Samaritan picked him up and followed his driving instructions back to the old home, so I’m not sure any kind of wristband or card would have helped in that case. But now that I know how to recognize the signs of Alzheimer’s if I encountered someone wandering like he was, I would think to check for a wrist band with an address and/or phone number. Maybe nowadays you can get her to wear some kind of GPS device that you can engage if necessary? 

Mainly I think the most effective method is having a caretaker around who can be vigilant (unlike me when I lost grandpa…)
Fill out an [ICE card](https://www.amazon.com/RXBC2011-Emergency-Medical-Information-Card/dp/B07Y1B1QVC/ref=pd_lpo_1?pd_rd_i=B07Y1B1QVC&psc=1) (link provided for illustration- you can easily print off your own for free) and put it in all of her bags.  If she carries a cellphone, put the emergency contact info on the lock screen.  Also, enable location sharing.  Your family will have to learn to be vigilant.  Never leave them in a vehicle with keys, put a bell on the door that will alert you when it opens.
We use a  watch that act likeba gps and send us notification when she goes out of the house. Let me know if you re interested.
I have a locator app on my dad's phone "Find device" that I needed when he used to be able to get around.
I think we'll have better options for gps over time.  After my dad's diagnosis, we got him a medical alert ID with name, our numbers, and his primary medical conditions.  A lot of athletes or active people are getting this and just wear it all the time, in case they get hurt while biking or hiking, etc.  I got his at Laurens hope online www.laurenshope.com.  they have plain, decorative, masculine... All sorts.  I would have this for him regardless of tech that comes out.  It never hurts to have a back up.
Our issues are she's a stubborn bugger. She doesn't feel there's a serious problem so won't have a watch on that isn't her normal one. Her phone is a really old flip phone, she said she can't use a smart phone. But I'll see if I can get an old looking phone but can do smart phone things.
My grandma was a wanderer, she would just walk out the door with nothing, and sometimes in the nude. Our solution was simple, since she was never left alone, we put a child latch on the front door.  We would just not use the front door anymore and used the garage door instead. Whenever we took her anywhere we used the front door, so she never knew she could get out through the garage. She also never figured out there was a latch just above her eye level, even though she had seen us use it.  


My current LO is not a wanderer but she does talk about leaving, so we’ve made sure everyone has a picture of her and our contact info. She can’t maneuver the porch gate, so the one time she did get out she just stayed in the porch.
Best solution we found was double deadbolt locks, child safety handles or locks on the doors, door and window alarms, and prayer. Dad would try to wander off at all hours. After chasing him down a few times, we just went into lockdown. (Of course, that ended up feeding his delusions that we were scientists who were keeping him prisoner to do illegal experiments on him, but hey, at least he believed that while safely in the house, not ambling down a rural road in his underwear and one slipper at 4 in the morning in the middle of February...)
Ive seen similar done in nursing homes. Non-main doors were locked, with alarms.
Maybe a Apple tag or tile that you can slip somewhere under her raider. 

At my nursing home we use to have these wandering devices that would trigger if they went outside. Usually you’d wear it like a watch but some like to take it off so we had to get clever. We would connect it to shoes or ankles or even their mobility devices. 

Or maybe a nice bracelet or necklace containing a ICE that she may agree to wear 

Best of luck tho. Stubborn people are extra hard.
