You could consider having in-home care which means you would have someone available to look after her during part of the day. That being said, this may not be enough to give you back your full night sleep. 

And keep in mind that those horror stories you hear about nursing homes and hospitals are the exception, not the norm. There are plenty of great facilities with staff that will look after her.
There are anti-anxiety meds that do not "sedate" or put you into bed. A properly trained geriatric specialist or psychiatrist can manage the dose and balance it out. Best of luck.
You have a sad opinion of assisted living/memory care. No, your mother does not need to be in a nursing home. 
I've been working assisted living/home care for several years now. 
Please check out your local assisted living/memory care community. They aren't what you think they are.
Edit: please don't medicate her and more than what she needs, that is archaic and demoralizing.
Im so sorry.
My mother was exactly the same way. I was carrying for her by myself and working. She was waking up 3-5 times a night. I tried everything. This went on until her dying day. I was about to pay for help -only 40 hrs a week which would have been $40-60k a year here. I’d still have to care for her at night but at least I’d be able to have uninterrupted workday. Thankfully, my sister was furloughed during the pandemic. She worked the week days and stayed at overnight. Getting someone to sleep over and give you a full night of rest is lifesaving.
Talk to you doctor about getting your mom some medication that will help her stay asleep. There are many options for this, it doesn't have to be a super strong drug. Our grandma gets a anti-allergy pill (hydroxizine) and it greatly reduces the frequency of her waking up during the night.
My bestfriend told me about melatonin which is a naturally occurring hormone in the body already so it doesn’t interact badly with other medications. My grandma used to stay up all night and we got no sleep…once we started giving her the melatonin she sleeps from 9pm to like 11am sometimes later. It’s been an absolute miracle for us and I hope it can help someone else ❤️
> You could consider having in-home care which means you would have someone available to look after her during part of the day. That being said, this may not be enough to give you back your full night sleep.

All options are on the table. Here (in Germany) oftentimes people employ eastern European people for price reasons (24h care, with 2 days off). There is an estimate that about 500.000 (82million pop) of such caregivers are employed.

However, in July there was a ruling by the highest court, that these people not only need to be payed minimum wage and not their countries corresponding salary but also the time they are "not working" as they are on call-duty, so you go from something that costs like 2500-4000€/m ($3000-4700) to like 10.000€-16000€ ($12k-$19) Which is essentially unaffordable for almost everyone, who employ people legally. I just read up on it, there are reports 90% employ these people illegally.

This afternoon I got a sticky note from my neighbor who knows someone who can provide caregivers contacts in this area.
> You have a sad opinion of assisted living/memory care.

True, it mostly stems from the last experience in the geriatric ward in the hospital after her injury and my experiences with nursing homes.

On the other hand I'm wondering how memory care facilities deal with people that get active at night, with the possibility not only to activate the staff but also wake up other patients.

> please don't medicate her and more than what she needs, that is archaic and demoralizing.

I will definitely take this into account.

Thank you.
My mom is at an assisted living/memory care facility.  It is exactly for people with symptoms like your mom’s.   The residents have several levels of care- my mom started at the lowest level needed.  Residents had their own rooms and bathrooms but they do a lot of normal activities like cookouts w the staff doing the grilling or movie night or nail painting parties.  24/7 staffing means that someone is around at night to reassure a confused resident, maybe sit with them and have a snack and chat or help them work a crossword puzzle.

My mom really was sundowning and was so confused she was using her personal phone to call 911 constantly.  We had to take the phone away but my mom was more than welcome to use the facility phone, with supervision.  Occasionally I’d get a call from one of the staff, “Your mom is having a rough evening- we think she’d calm down if she could talk to you for a bit”.  But I did say No calls after 7 pm.  And I had a big note in my mom’s room saying “Don’t call your kids after 7 pm.  They go to bed early because they wake up early to go to work but it’s okay! Ask the staff if you need anything!”

Memory care was a godsend.  I learned with my own mother that dementia is ever changing and problems multiply more quickly than you realize so now is a good time to start looking at what is available.  And- it’s better to move people to memory care while they still have some idea of what is going on- if you wait the transition can be so much more difficult.
Assisted living/memory care communities have people in staff 24/7. She will be well cared for
>On the other hand I'm wondering how memory care facilities deal with people that get active at night, with the possibility not only to activate the staff but also wake up other patients.

OP: I can't speak to all memory care facilities, but in the case of the one my dad's in, they try not to force the residents to stay in bed if they're determined to be awake. The residents don't want to sleep, don't understand why they should, and tend to act out if you push.This facility is also strongly against restraints or sedatives. They try to do behavioral interventions well before they get to meds. The facility has 24/7 aides and nurses to keep an eye on any restless wanderers and deal with the inevitable bathroom accidents, and then just kinda...lets 'em do their thing. They do try to distract and redirect them in order to keep them out of other residents' rooms while THOSE residents are sleeping, though.

As for your mom, how would she react if you quietly took her alarm away, or took the battery out, and instead put a baby monitor and a bed alarm in her room? You could also put a motion detector in there, too, that'll send an alarm to your phone if she gets up. I don't know how she'll react, but if you can swing it, then at least you won't have her ringing the alarm when she's just bored or lonely - but you will still have eyes and ears on her in case she really needs something.
That’s really the norm and the staff is 24/7 so they will be up and working all hours of the night
I work in a memory care facility. And have worked every shift we offer at different points. Nights are the hardest shift to work. It’s two people who basically get to toilet people during the night, clean, and assisting those that are waking all night long. 

I cannot speak for all memory care units. In my unit doors are kept locked from the outside at night to help ensure other residents are not bothered by the nighttime shenanigans. Rooms are also fairly soundproof from outside sounds. In the few years I’ve been at this unit, there have always been residents with a messed up circadian rhythm. Their sleep schedules don’t match with themselves or anyone else. In some cases a person may be up for 32 hours straight, and not even get that tired, and then be basically asleep or half asleep for the next 48. 

Unfortunately these patterns are not always fixable. Basic medications like melatonin, anti anxiety meds, and (in more extreme situations) anti psychotics often have no effect at all on sleeping patterns. Subjecting a single person to have to help care for a person that is experiencing this level of difficulty is frankly torture. I work in that environment, and have been well trained and have experience in the field. I could not care for any one of my residents 24hrs a day even if they were my own immediate family. So please for your own mental health get some help.

And finally, what actually works to help them get back to sleep if they are waking up? It simply takes time. Sometimes it could be hunger. It could be they simply can’t sleep. It could be a bad dream woke them up. It could be confusion about the time. It could be loneliness. It could be a disconnection from reality where they think they should be doing something or going somewhere. The only way to help someone move past those episodes is to address the problem, and help them feel comfortable and relaxed. Unfortunately, that means it takes time.
Thank you, this sounds exactly what we're (me and my sister) looking for.

In the upcoming two weeks we have test days in a daycare facilities (picked up in the morning, brought back in the afternoon). I have to figure out, if these facilities, that offer activities and meals during the day, offer a night care service, essentially a home.

It was "hard" finding these two facilities, and they are not nearby. Other, closer facilities had waiting lists dating back to like 2019. 

I think this is similar to assisted living/memory care.
This so much. Love to you
> As for your mom, how would she react if you quietly took her alarm away, or took the battery out,

I have to clarify one thing first. In addition to the dementia, after the hip accident, she is kind of immobile. She cannot really walk and go to the toilet or toilet chair, but she tries. The likelihood of her falling is massive and it happens every other week, with or without walking help.

> As for your mom, how would she react if you quietly took her alarm away, or took the battery out, and instead put a baby monitor and a bed alarm in her room?

She wouldn't care. I have such an baby monitor in front of me, with a motion/voice detector, but it triggers on movement in the bed. I have turned the alarm off, but usually I'm monitoring all the time over the day, when I'm not sleeping.
> I could not care for any one of my residents 24hrs a day even if they were my own immediate family. So please for your own mental health get some help.

I will, I have to. I tried, I denied the obvious and a few minutes ago I got into an argument with my sister, when I made clear I cannot do this anymore and she got angry, because her efforts for daycare assistance may be in vein...then we agreed to hang up and talk about it later.

> It simply takes time.

Agreed and I realize I don't have this time, to a lesser degree in the daytime but especially in the nights.

> It could be a bad dream woke them up. It could be confusion about the time. It could be loneliness.

Yes, yes and yes. She states she's afraid, she wants to get up and dressed, and she states she is lonely in addition to  the toilet.

> The only way to help someone move past those episodes is to address the problem, and help them feel comfortable and relaxed.

It's hard and I have to admit I fail at that often, as I cannot sit with her at night and talk to her. Toilet is also more like a standard procedure now, comfortable sure, relaxed, probably not at night.
