If she's lost that much weight and is still on the same dosage of meds for hypertension, that's probably causing the balance issues and falls. She should see her doctor, but if she won't go in person, you could get her a blood pressure cuff and she could track her BP for a while, then have a virtual visit to discuss adjusting meds, if necessary. I had that problem when I lost weight, I would get dizzy when I stood up or when I was out in the heat or in a warm shower, and it was because I didn't need the blood pressure meds anymore.
A check up with her doctor asap. Many medications are based on weight.  For example, when caring for my dad, I  was making daily and weekly adjustments for a 5lb change.
Have her checked for [normal pressure hydrocephalus ](https://www.alz.org/alzheimers-dementia/what-is-dementia/types-of-dementia/normal-pressure-hydrocephalus), my MIL (same co-morbidities) had very similar symptoms at 60. She didn’t get diagnosed until she was 67, by which time the damage was done, they couldn’t do the surgery and she went into full dementia. If they catch it early they can put a shunt in and she’ll pretty much have all the symptoms reversed.
Take her to the doctor.  Have them check for a UTI (urinary tract infection).  Older people don’t always get the physical pain symptoms, but some of this?  Could be.  Maybe.  At least eliminate the physical illness.  

And monitor her bp, as in keeping a log of date, time, readings.  

If she has sufficient cognition, talk with her about her future (and FIL).  This is what’s in store:  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/16Zyn2NwD59JWGgzFOSNkiOuqgpatjWBZ/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=104722149760644803185&rtpof=true&sd=true
This sounds like my Mom. She started forgetting how to do things, stopped going out, stopped driving her car etc. She was never diagnosed but was clear she had dementia. I have no idea if there can be a link between covid and dementia or other elder diseases. I do know that my Dad had a stroke and then his early parkinsons accelerated fast as did his dementia but not as fast. I would suggest she have a physical soon and see if anything shows up. The family should be listening and give it fair consideration. I dont know if its possible you can talk to her about it. you can just say that you think she should talk to her doctor about the things you mentioned. maybe offer to drive her and offer support, talk to the doctor with her.
Go with your gut. If you feel something’s not right, then take her to the doctor ASAP. What feels like a inconvenience now could help prevent something worse from happening later.

What you’re describing sounds very much like my dad. Long story incoming: my dad was also showing signs of impaired cognition pre-COVID, which my mom thought was early onset dementia. He is also pre-diabetic with high blood pressure. I saw him once at the beginning of COVID and I could see his balance was off and that he physically was weaker. But my mom managed to convince me for a long time that he was fine (and I was living out of state and not around to see it, so took her word for it). Turns out my dad had had 2 mini strokes due to his high blood pressure, and the symptoms we thought were dementia were due to the strokes. And we found all that out after this third stroke, which was the ultimate wake-up call for our family. The burden of feeling something was off but not pushing harder to get him to the doctor still weighs very heavily on me.  

Sometimes the people closest have a hard time facing the truth that their loved ones may need help. I absolutely empathize, but “better safe than sorry” really should be the motto here.
Wow she's really young to have those issues. My thoughts are the same as yours that she did some fad unhealthy diet. I'd get her to a doctor one way or another.
You might check to see if the doctor will schedule a virtual appointment if she is really hesitant about going in.  

I have a friend who is agoraphobic, and admits it, but when she had an injury a few months back and had to go to the hospital, she was impressed by all the safety measures, and is now saying she wishes she could have spent more time at the hospital recovering.

Could you accompany her to the doctors office, and/or find out their health precautions?  My doctor's office is locked, and a member of staff comes out to take your temperature.  The day before you have to fill out a form related to vaccination status and exposure/health.
Check out what she IS eating. My wife and I are in our early 70's, we are both doing intermittent fasting, no carbs and are NOT having any problems. 

We do, however, eat a VERY balanced dinner and LOTS OF WATER. 40-60 oz a day.🥴 and see our doctors regularly.

When doing intermittent fasting a doctor's supervision is essential.
Yes. Happened to one of my in-laws.
