Exelon patch is a cholinesterase inhibitor similar to aricept.  Is she already taking aricept? if so the patch would be unnecessary.  That patch also tends to be more expensive than aricept but drugs like these are very frequently used in dementia patients to mildly help with their memory.  Most common side effects are upset stomach/diarrhea and vivid dreams or nightmares can occur as well.

In my experience dementia patients tend to be irritated by the patch and pull it off so aricept would probably be a better bet.

A second medication that is typically taken alongside drugs like Aricept and the Exelon patch is Namenda.  It is an nmda receptor antagonist that has shown to help with memory in more moderate disease patients.  This is a very well tolerated medicine as well.
My grandma is on it at 9.5 mg. She also takes generic Aricept 10 mg. She hasn't been on it too long (a few months) so I'm not honestly sure if it is helping any. She also takes imodium twice a day to help with her stomach issues because of lots of fiber during the day too. 

We are keeping her on it just to see if it stabilizes her and slows her drop offs. But at this point we aren't really sure that it is doing much. We change them at night and put them on her back where she can't reach. Otherwise she pulls it off. It hasn't caused any side effects other than loose bms at the beginning stages that tapered off.
Nothing to add other than my sympathies. I also recently had an appointment with a neurologist who spoke over and at my mother but not to her. She’s not that bad and it was incredibly condescending. Absolutely no tact. It’s so frustrating because why would you do that to someone who is easily irritated and confused. 

Plus, despite me having sent all the records to this office previously he hadn’t read any of it. Then, even after telling him exactly what was done and him finding some of it in the system he said he had not looked at it and so whatever he will get to it later. But we are here for the appointment today!!! And now we have to come back in three months for a follow up. And the three month follow-up is going to be in 4–5 months because he is on a three week vacation and booked out. Wow.
My mom took aricept and it made her super sick although her cognition and paranoia improved. We switched to exelon and it did the same thing almost as well with much less diarrhea. The patches didnt bother her, but it was a chore to get them done properly by respite when i wasnt there. Sometimes they wouldnt take off the old one or not put the new one in the right place etc. I found they worked well enough to keep using for my mom, but i wouldn’t expect that to be the same for everyone. Mom is also on seroquel
My husband was on Aricept and was irritable. I leaned towards Exelon patch due to this forum and some of the comments. He’s just been increased from 4.5 to 9.5 mg. 

He asked me what his patch was for. I said, “it’s for memory, obviously it’s not working lol”. Jk. 

I can’t seem to get his downhill slide to stop. We saw a new neuro today.
She took aricept for a couple of weeks and had severe uncontrollable diarrhea for 5 months. Took three colon doctors to get her over it.
Thanks for the excellent information. Just irritates me for a doc to ask if I want her to try something. She is doing great on Seroquel, it stopped her delusions, hallucinations and irritability.
My wife took aricept years ago and immediately developed diarrhea which lasted 5 months.  She discontinued aricept.
My wife’s downhill slide never stops.  She is never ever irritable, laughs about everything.  In fact, her new.neurologist questioned her diagnosis.  This is a terrible disease.  Thanks for your insight.
No problem! :)  Yeah the doctor should have explained what it is for sure.  Seroquel is a good antipsychotic for dementia patients because it does not tend to cause parkinsonism. 

All the typical cholinesterase inhibitors (Aricept, Exelon patch (rivastigmine), and galantamine) can also cause diarrhea but it's not a guarantee.  Namenda does not cause diarrhea as a side effect like the cholinesterase inhibitors do so that may be more suitable for your wife.
I wouldn't risk it at this point.
My husband has Lewy Body Dementia with Parkinsonism. However we went to a “center of excellence” — Mohammed Ali’s Barrow Institute. They wouldn’t give him a definitive diagnosis. 

This new doctor tests for alpha synuclein in the skin and has ordered a DAT scan. With DLB, there are special considerations for meds and medications they can’t have. I want to know now and not after he dies and has a brain autopsy. 

It’s frustrating. Hang in there.

Edit: during his appt, it sounded like I was bashing him. He doesn’t remember or realize how bad it is. I had specific examples of loss of cognition. The key is to be brutally honest because the objective is to get the medications that they need.
