My mother had children invading her house, eating her food, and using her makeup. One of them was me, occasionally. I’m 50.

I don’t think helping with that lie hurts anything; the line between delusions and reality are gone. To my family, it signaled her obvious decline and a need for external help. Her delusions and paranoia eventually got the best of her in the wrong spot and she ended up on a psych hold at the hospital. After that stay, she went straight into Memory Care where knowledgeable folks can keep an eye on her and manage/medicate her behavior.

My best to you in this. It will be hard, but remember to do what is best for the patient and not for the “family reputation” or to avoid hurt feelings. It is an illness and should be viewed as such; when my father had cancer, we didn’t try to tackle it alone. Same with mother’s dementia.
I recommend reading Rachael Wonderlin- Jumping into their reality. https://rachaelwonderlin.com/2019/04/23/embracingtheirrealitytm/
Read her other blog posts. They will be very helpful.

I think you are doing the right thing as you are, like you said, “legitimizing her feelings”. This is a very emotional disease and you are “jumping into her reality” to ease her anxiety about the situations.
My grandma has a lot of kids and babies in her delusions as well. I think you handled it fine. If she’s like my grandma-I don’t think she’s retaining it and getting mad because she thinks you’re lying, but rather this is a recurring theme for her. My grandma asks me EVERY TIME, “where’s the baby?” And I’m like “oh, with my neighbor” or whatever. 

My grandma has zero sense of time and is completely unable to connect dots and rationalize so the correct response (at least in our case) is to go along with it and gently change the subject. 

My grandma also cooked food for imaginary friends when she lived alone and that was disturbing. I cringed at the thought of her cooking, driving etc when she was psychotic. Does your grandma have someone who can stay with her when she’s having these spells?

Hugs…
My gran has had very similar problems. Often phoning me late at night worried about the baby. I'd not long had a kid of my own and she would sometimes call me crying because I'd left my baby with her for days and hadn't come back (I had not done that!)

We actually found great success in buying her a stuffy called Bonny the Bunny. We got some tiny baby grows and a blanket for her. When her minds straight she thinks it's a cute toy she keeps around for my daughter to play with, and when it's not then Bonny is easy for her to look after by herself.
Just go with it!  My father (83, late stage 6) has so many stories about things he never did!  Most recently, he told my sister how involved he was in rescuing so many people from 9/11.  It was incredibly detailed with descriptions of people he pulled out of the wreckage.  He lives in WA State and has never been to New York.  It was really difficult to go with all his stories when he lived with us, but it was such a better option, then to disagree and tell him he was wrong.  It would trigger his anger and then he would go and pout.  Dementia is the worst disease in my opinion.
You're not lying to her, you're lying to the dementia, and that helps her. It takes some of the worry away.
Had a similar problem with my mom. She’d call me at 3am mad my dad wasn’t home and was catting around. Bars. My dad been dead 15 yrs. was totally devoted to her and was NOT the bar type. 
I put a sign over all the phone stating he  died 15 yrs ago  and was in Heaven. It stopped. 
Her new thing is that all her dead siblings and parents were coming to dinner. This ones been a bit trickier.
My MIL was a nurse and her delusion while in the memory care unit was that she was still a nurse. The MCU aids indulged her constantly on that and it was sweet.
As others have said, just go along in the moment. I totally get where you're coming from re: being worried you'll accidentally "feed" the delusion by going along with it. I never really found a good solution. I just kind of took it on a case-by-case basis. Also, my dad tended to fixate on one delusion for 2-3 days, then it would vanish, so it's always possible that your grandma will forget eventually.
I love your reply and the cancer analogy. People catch so much guilt over sending a loved one to a nursing home or memory care…when in reality this is a loving thing to get the care the patient needs.  If my grandma still lived alone she would have killed herself and/or others. If she was still living in my home I would have killed myself (mostly serious) and she would have had a miserable last few months. As it is, she feels safe, content and cared for and has had many wonderful days that never would have been possible we were still trying to sort this out ourselves. Now the financial hardship issues are a whole nother story. :)
Thank you, yes we want to do whatever is best for her, it does feel at this point like it's just best to do what will calm her moment to moment. It feels strange 'lying' to her like that but ultimately it will make her feel better and that's what's important.
Thank you! I will read that, looks good.
This is a very valuable tool. I personally live in an ALF and it’s hard to watch these people 
Whose illness takes a HUGE toll on their beings. I’m 64 and a two stroke survivor. I’m also 
the youngest person here, the oldest will be 104 in a couple of months…
She just recently got worse, so we've managed to arrange for more care at the retirement complex she lives at, and we're looking into dementia care places for her to go long term, hopefully we'll get her somewhere within the next couple of weeks. For now we are visiting her a few times a week, plus the care agency who visit her twice a day. It's tough because my sister just had a massive brain trauma and is struggling to recover in hospital, then Grandma got so much worse at almost the same time, but we've managed to get it under control I think. I'll be happier when she's somewhere with 24/7 care though, I don't like the thought of her making all this food on her own, I just hope she's happy when she's doing it, like in the old days when she used to put out biscuits and cakes for us all when we were little.
Yes this is what I'm thinking, if I question the delusion it might make her confused or angry, or paranoid that I'm messing with her or something. She can get very paranoid and angry at times, has accused my mother of stealing and me of 'going through her cupboards' so we want to avoid her feeling like we're against her. 

It is an awful disease, it's so bizarre as well, I can't help but wonder where some of her delusions come from. She sounds so normal, like if you didn't know her and know what she was saying was impossible, you'd think she was totally fine. I'm sorry you're going through this too with your father, it's good to hear that we are doing the right thing by just going with it.
