\- Depends help. There are underwear-like varieties that aren't so diapery and may be an easier sell. If she won't wear them, remove her underwear from the drawer, put it where she can't find it, and replace it all with Depends. With this stage of dementia, while you have to give them at least the appearance of choice as much as possible, they can't make rational decisions and sometimes you just have to quietly take certain choices away.  
\- Mattress pads are super handy for night-time accidents. Search for incontinence bed pads. We also used Ameritex chair covers.  
\- Commodes are good to have, if she'll use them. Very often, incontinence happens at night and can happen because they can't find the bathroom. (Or they can find it but can't figure out what to do. Or the brain-bladder connection is on the fritz and they don't realize they have to go or don't realize they've already gone. There are a lot of factors.) Having a commode by the bed can remove that obstacle.  
\- Timed toileting. Prompt her to go to the bathroom every couple of hours. Very often they just don't think of going, or, like I said, don't realize the need. If you can get them to a toilet, though, sometimes it'll connect and they'll go. If you get them on the toilet and nothing's happening even though you're pretty sure they have to go, run water in the sink.  
\- Restrict fluids a few hours before bedtime.  
\- If she has trouble finding the toilet, I hear that high contrast toilet seats work. Memory care facilities use red. That said, I tried that and my dad freaked the F out and wouldn't go near the bathroom for two days. I did explain to him what I was doing, but he didn't remember, he just saw that his environment had changed and he didn't understand or like it. Darn toilet seat could have been a live alligator from the way he reacted. So, uh. Approach this one with care?  
\- e: thought of this right after I hit post. Of course. Anyhoo, for the getting-lost-on-the-way-to-the-toilet problem, also consider night lights and signs. Search for dementia bathroom signs - they're just a picture of a toilet or a restroom sign that you can put on the bathroom door. Night lights can help by attracting their attention and encouraging them to head towards the light. Hopefully, once there, they'll go, "Oh, look, a toilet!" and do their thing. Hopefully.
God, I am starting to freak out a bit. She has been good with finding the toilet and managing her urges so far. Little shocked that she peed (just a bit) while watching TV on the couch and didn't react at all... I guess this is the next level. It hasn't happened at night yet - bed is dry and I have a waterproof mattress pad (upgrading to encasement).

I am currently only checking in 3 times a day and have caregivers 1-2 times a day. Is the manageable with depends? I cannot be checking every 2 hours, it's just impossible.

Thank you all!
In the beginning of my elders incontinence, it was always different.
As it progressed we got into the schedule: typically 4 changes a day.
1st thing in the morning shower/change.. once *before* lunch, once *before* dinner, and right before bed. I say before meals because after she ate she didn't want to get up and do anything lol who does? It worked for us that way. If she needed an extra change we would, but we tried to follow a schedule for sanity.


In the beginning it was hard to gage.. sometimes she'd use the bathroom and other times not. Sometimes she'd go in to use it but didn't need to, and sometimes went in but too late. We threw out all her underwear and filled her draw with the depends. We used the "always" brand mostly, but "TENA" was a good brand for us too, and similarly priced. 
I didn't find this out until 3 yrs into her incontinence, but if you have Medicaid they will send them to you for free! For instance, we had Agewell through Medicaid.. agewell didn't come out and say "hey, we'll send you free stuff!".. so once I learned that tidbit I called and our rep said "fax me a prescription from the doctor".. we got the prescription and then they started showing up every month.
We also got bed pads to go under her sheets and kotex pads to line the diapers at night. All of them were sent free. (I wish I had known that for the first 3 years I was buying it all put of pocket!)
We could have also gotten a shower chair, a wheelchair, and a commode, but I had already purchased those things. (Oh the money I wish I saved!)

Also.. my elder would like drench the bed... even with the pads. I ended up getting this mattress cover (brand name PURPLE).. it was expensive for a mattress cover, but saved me a ton in having to wash sheets every single day. If you ever get to that point, I can vouch the purple brand worked even though it cost more.

Anyway best of luck to you!
I have my dad on a subscription for 120 delivered every month, so there are no gaps. I also buy him the Amazon brand of pull-ups which work just fine and are much cheaper.

One problem is that he tries to flush them because he gets confused, so frequent toilet clogs. I have a standing supply of gloves, cleaners, and Purell for any clean up issues. You may also want to get a dedicated diaper pail to control the smell. 

For the bed, I bought a full encased zippered water proof protector, plus two water proof mattress pads. He also uses a large absorbent pad underneath him when he sleeps.
I take care of my mother. I change her adult diapers once a day. She usually makes it to the toilet...except for when she doesn't. She does do weird things with the diapers (hiding them or ripping then off for no reason), but it's just more weird things that she does. 

She had hit the point of using the bathroom in the trashcan in her room at night when she couldn't find the bathroom (she would not leave the nightlight alone and it got dangerous, so it had to be removed). The trashcan mess was not fun to clean up every morning.

Now we have a touch nightlight on the ceiling that she can't reach to mess with, and I turn it on before bed. As long as she leaves the door open, she can see the bathroom. And the trashcan comes out, too. She has been better with these changes and it's been good for me.

She has a protector on her bed, diapers on, and a well-lit path to the bathroom. That's as much as I can do right now.

Best of luck and hope you find a good solution to deal with your new problem.
This is great advice! The only thing I'd add is that we also bought a waterproof sheet for the bed - the regular sheet and pee pad go on top of that, just in case of leaks.
Our LO w/Alz keeps unplugging the nightlights we installed. Claims it’s too bright (they’re the lowest lumens) & can’t get back to sleep, so we gave up. 

Disposing of Depends is the problem- She lives alone (w/help 2 days/week). She drops them in the open trash under the kitchen sink. Unsanitary & it stinks, but she can’t smell it. Would it do any good to put a roll of plastic bags by the trash & a note?
I now put a baby/pet gate across the hallway just past the bedroom. I usually hear when my grandmother gets up with her walker and I can make sure she goes into the bathroom. One time I did not wake up, or feel back asleep before she went back to bed, and she wandered into the living room and laid down on the couch. She was very confused when I found her hours later. The gate restricts her to the bathroom and our bedrooms.

She has a nightlight in her bedroom and there are motion sensor lights in the hallway and bathroom.

For the incontinence, we are using pads. At first, she used liners, but they aren't absorbent enough. I bought thicker pads and recently some nighttime pads. I have some washable mattress pads that I bought at Walmart. We used them for the cats at first, but now need them for the bed. I'm going to be buying more. My aunt, a retired nurse, recommended Cardinal brand.
Oof. I'm sorry we scared you. I'm glad she isn't quite to THAT level yet.

If she's wearing Depends, someone is physically checking in and prompting her to change or helping her change a couple of times a day, and she's only having occasional accidents, I THINK you should be good.
Can you get an auto- closing trash can for the same spot or next to the toilet?
Diaper genie, great for disposal.
I had a diaper genie for a while too, and it was really great for concealing odors. It worked especially well early on when she was still sometimes using the bathroom. As her incontinence got worse there was a developing issue for myself::: when it came time to change the pail bag.. it was like *"I'm going to gag to death"* . Apparently there was a big difference between baby urine and elder urine... it was so bad I ended up throwing ours away after s while and bought a huge box of 1-gallon bags. Whenever we did a change I'd just throw it in a bag before it hit the bathroom trash. (That was getting emptied every night though anyway, so odors were concealed for the time.) But that's another alternative if it ever gets to that 👍
