How about serving her a nightcap in bed each night of special dessert, cocktail or mock-tail, chocolates? At a certain time. "It's time for your sherbet!"
I'm so sorry. Do your best to try to move her to the bedroom and just hope she sleeps. I have to use multiple methods to try and get my grandma to move towards her bed, it's very difficult sometimes if they just don't listen. It feels like a hostage situation. I make decaf but she thinks it caffeinated (only decaf if she has regular coffee she won't sleep for 3 days) coffee with cookies and tell her "hi grandma, there is coffee in your room" and after saying that 10x in 10 different ways she eventually understands to move towards her bedroom because she \*always\* wants coffee. Is there anything you can put in the room that might convince her to move towards it? we also put an alexa in her room, so when she wanders away her daughter can call her and say "come here, come to your room, I'm in your room, look there is coffee in your room" and once she \*sees\* her bed she usually sits down and eventually lays down which eventually leads to sleep.
It's worth a try. And it's harmless.
Try anything you can think of because you never know what will work.  Go to the bedroom and call her saying you need to show her something, bring her a pillow and blanket to the table and say goodnight, if she likes music turn music on in her room, maybe she thinks there is something or someone in the room at night so go in and make a process of making sure nothing is there, maybe do before actual bed time so she can witness.  Also, maybe this is something that will pass and you just have to wait it out. Good luck.
Sometimes reverse physiology does work! If it doesn't,  I would suggest removing the kitchen table chairs out of her sight and let her take her meals in her favorite recliner. Then she can fall asleep in her recliner and it will be safer then the kitchen table chair.
I like this idea. Some days of course she doesn't want sweets, but that's why we've gotta have an arsenal of ideas.
What's worked up until now is that my parents' cat likes to go to bed with my mom, and he'll literally sit there and wait for her to go to bed, follow her if she stands up, etc. She might not get up for me or my dad, but if we point out *Billy the Cat wants you to go to bed,* then it's just OK, gotta go! 

Unfortunately in the past couple days she's gotten confused about what Billy is (she keeps calling him a dog) and also does not seem to remember how to pet him, so this might just no longer be effective. We'll have to come up with something else. 

(We adopted Billy specifically for my mom, and he's been a godsend.)
If we had a recliner this would be much easier! :)
Can she lie down on the couch or other place that isn't in her bedroom? Of course the bed is the best place to sleep, but if you can get her to anyplace where she can stretch out, you can lower the lights, turn on soothing music, etc. Like you said above, having an arsenal ideas is key, because what works changes from day to day!
The couch is a possibility, but we'd have to put a pee pad down first... I think that the problem was largely that we'd switched the time of day we give her the antidepressant, which we've now switched back. But keeping all the other ideas in my back pocket because it'll never not be an issue!
