I just emptied my mom's underwear drawer of underpants and put in depends.  This may not work for you but worth a try.
Remove all underwear, offer only Depends.  Problems showering?  Give a bed bath with wipes.  

For some elders, bathing is scary.  Why?  Because they have trouble lifting their leg and balancing to get into the bathtub.  Because it's slippery.  Because nudity is involved.  Because they may have been shamed.  There are a lot of emotions around bathrooms.  And they are the single most dangerous room in the home.  Try and use a shower stool or chair so he has a place to sit.  Make sure you get between toes, on tops of feet and ankles with a soapy wash cloth.  Be quick, but make it count.

If it's hot out, a refreshing cool wash via hose and stool in the back yard could work.  Use soap with a fragrance he likes, if possible.  Help him shave or shave him.  Use his favorite aftershave.  Play music and sing along with him.  Have his favorite coffee and give him a sip afterward.  Food treats like ice cream after can work also.
I started early to convince my mom that wearing disposable underwear, which I called "disposees", were what all the cool middle aged people were doing. Like wearing temporary (admittedly padded) underwear was a sign that you could afford to do that. OK - they were Depends, but now they make women ones that have flowers and are better colors, so for the most part my ruse worked. 
I don't know how you would get a man to accept that though.
I would fluff them out before showing them to him. The sound and the feel of them being made ready to put on can be off-putting. 

If he has bowel incontinence it is not healthy for anyone and must be treated as a serious situation. His refusal is not an option. Pair getting dressed, including the disposable underwear, with something he likes "As soon as you are dressed we will have breakfast. I made bacon" "As soon as you get changed into clean clothes, we can go see those new trucks at the car lot" "After your shower we can have some ice cream and watch Pawn Stars"
Sometimes incontinence can be an indicator of bladder or bowel infections. Especially as he is resistant to bathing. There are many foaming bathing products that don't require rinsing. Aloe Vesta is my preferred brand and many hospitals use it. You can find it and other brands online or drug stores. Doesn't necessarily replace a good shower but might help with his daily needs. 

In nursing homes, they frequently try bladder/bowel retraining. It might  help to monitor his bathroom habits and to verbally cue him to go to the bathroom every 2-3 hours when awake. 

There are pads/ briefs available that are marketed for men. I have known clients who used both to stretch the life of the brief. 

 Perhaps having his doctor talk to him will encourage him to accept your help.(and clear up possible infections) It will require patience on your part but as you redirect him and he gets used to a daily routine, hopefully he will feel less embarrassed and appreciate your help.
For your furniture,  put down some puppy pads and get some old sheets from a thrift store to cover them.  

It saves your furniture and you're not using sheets you care about.  The puppy pads catch any leakage and can just be thrown away and replaced. 

I had to do this with my folks as their illnesses progressed.  Covering the furniture with a sheet overtop of the puppy pads made my parents less self conscious of them.
I removed all my moms cotton underwear and replace it with her depends. Natures Miracle stain and soil remove just about anything. You can find it in the pet department. Also put puppy pee pads on the furniture and beds. I get the large dog ones. I put one down and duct tape it to the sheets. Then lay another one loosely over that. That way if my mom moves one aside she can’t another.
I didn't give my father a choice, although he didn't have dementia. "Dad, you either wear these or you'll have to go live at the VA home, we can't have the house smelling like this with the kids coming home with their friends". Of course it was an empty threat, but he understood and thankfully just wore them daily for the three years that he was with us.
I've been thinking of this, he doesn't pick out his own clothes anymore so it may work? I'll give it a go.
At the hospital, for men, we referred to them as disposable briefs and never diapers. And yes, disposable meant they were actually "better" for the wearer as the caregiver had less laundry to attend to.
Yeahhhhh I have had that conversation 3 times with him. He can be very stubborn. *sigh* thank you for the input though. ♥
I'll bring it up to his doctors again. One doc wants a colonoscopy, the other told me to use depends, he has a plethera of other serious health issues that make it difficult. He goes to the bathroom on his own time, frequently. I think it's partially him trusting farts instead of going to the bathroom. He's sometimes confused on where the bathroom is located (next to his room) and walks out into the main house, only to have an accident. We (my brother and I) have mostly been able to correct him before the accident happens,but in the last 2 weeks he's had more accidents than normal. He has stage 5 kidney disease and a bad heart on top of the dementia. A lot in one body. Thank you for the ideas. ♥
My brother said something similar to what you're suggesting! He hates the idea of a nursing home but it's really a health hazard to have fecal matter on the floors. I'm going to switch out his underwear tonight and if he says anything I'll utilize this tactic. I've changed other things before with no explanation and he seemed to just accept it without being stubborn, but if I had asked him or talked to him, he would have refused. Thank you for sharing. It helps knowing others have been here too. ♥
My mom has been gone a couple of years now.  Alzheimers.  It was a journey of tears, joy and much laughter.  I know we were lucky that she was relatively easy.

My mom never even questioned when I replaced her underwear.  I think the alzheimer's  had taken away any of the mental acuity the would have objected to depends.
>*One doc wants a colonoscopy*

Near the age of 70, there is a serious possibility of bowel perforation.

Their skin is as thin on the inside as it is outside.
Oh yes, I definitely told that doc that he wouldn't be able to do that. I know there are less invasive ways of examining him and if the doc wants to do one of those, we can be available. He told me that he didn't do those, so we haven't been back to that doc. His primary doc also suggested it but I told her no as well. She understood my reasoning.
