It isn't the most fun option, but frankly at this point locking her in might be the safest option for her when she isn't being directly supervised. After the police brought my grandma home for the first time, we tried watching her/the doors, but as you've said, it's very difficult. We ended up putting a lock that required a key on both sides, and really high up so she wouldn't notice. I don't know how aware/inventive she is at this point, but the double sided lock worked better than a chain that we tried first, as even though her language was mostly gone she was able to drag a chair over and move it. Everyone else in the house had a key, and when she tried to get out we would redirect her. The peace of mind when we couldn't watch was well worth having to unlock the door to get out. Do keep in mind that a fire escape door is a good idea, or having a key hidden close by in case of emergency. Sending you strength and peace!
We have residents who get the sensor clipped to their back on their beltloops. Or at their bra, or rollator. Anywhere they won't notice it as much.

The elevator doors are hidden behind stickers,  and some houses experiment by hiding the doors out of sight. 

Consider removing everything that makes it look like the door, and putting a board over it. In such a way that you can still open it, but it no longer looks like the front door. Making the doorknob more difficult can also help: in Finland you have to both turn the key and move the handle to open the door, so you'll need coordination with both hands, etc.
I’ve been there, and I’m sorry to hear you’re going through this. My dad had also started wandering and he would leave our front door wide open. We gave him a medical ID bracelet (pretty nice jewelry) and started paying a close family to be an at-home companion for him until I came back from school.
This one makes pretty necklace tracking devices. https://www.invisawear.com/
Try this https://www.angelsense.com/
I had to put a sliding lock high yo on the doors that my grandmother could not reach and never noticed.  we basically had to lock her in everywhere and eventually she gave up. Her mind adjusted and her world became smaller. The adjustments can be rough but eventually the new habit is formed.  At my moms house we had to put bars in the sliding doors and a lock on the fridge.  

&#x200B;

Good luck
We use AngelSense for my dad.  He walks his dog everyday and losing that last bit of independence will be a terrible blow for him.  This has expanded that timeline.  They originally developed it for autistic kids who wander but it works great for AZ too.  He lives with my sister and she makes sure he sticks it in his pocket when he leaves.  Not sure what method would work best for your mom in terms of actually carrying the device.  We have his route geo-fenced so we get a notice when he walks outside his normal route.  I’ve added several “milestone” locations so I get a notice when he passes those so we can make sure he is on track.  We’ve had to go rescue him a few times but its no big deal with this device.  There is also an SOS button and we can talk to him through the device, sort of walkie-talkie style (“Dad, just stay where you are.  I’m on my way to you”).
Holy cow that website sucks.
