I totally understand your rage. Compassion and understanding are often not people's default settings. I saw the same happening with my mum. I have two immediate thoughts. I don't know if they'll be helpful, but here we are...

1) Before my mum had dementia I don't think I ever would have put two and two together when encountering a person whose behaviours seemed off. I often wonder, even though dementia is common enough, whether an understanding of what dementia looks like is common. I found that when people at the establishments my mum visited frequently learned about her condition, they had endless patience. All this to say: there isn't any excuse for shitty behaviour, but I do think ignorance factors in here. 

2) I read about a fellow who kept business cards that read something like: "My dad has dementia. Thank you for your patience and discretion with him." If I had had my organizational druthers while I still lived in with my mum, I think I would have made something similar to hand out discreetly while we were out and about. I don't know if something similar would help you, but thought I'd share the idea just in case...
Sorry you are going through this, and I know what you mean.  Went through this with my own mother.  We were at a doctor's appointment, and as I was leading her out and explaining everything to her again, the nurse gave me an amused, conspiratorial wink.  I glared at her in return.  I later called the office manager and told her I expected better behavior from a medical professional.  Also immediately changed doctors so we wouldn't run into this  nurse again.

Now I'm dealing with my husband, who has some dementia from his Parkinson's.  I've learned to ignore the stares and whispered comments in stores and other places, but I still have a "take no prisoners" attitude with anyone at a medical facility.  A receptionist who talks to him as if he's two?  I politely call her on it, and later talk with the office manager.  He was hospitalized a few months ago, and the doctor who was the hospitalist started talking down to him.  I was nervous and upset anyway, and I let this doctor know in no uncertain terms that his tone was inappropriate.  The doctor actually apologized and we got along quite well after that.

We can't do anything about the general public, but I will die on the hill of insisting medical personnel treat him with the dignity and respect he deserves.
Yeh, some people really suck, very rude.  I live with & care for my mum, since some years now, so yeh it happens.  Anyone engaging in that behaviour that we're not directly dealing with, like bystanders or whatever - I just totally ignore them, or sometimes give them a really dirty look & *then* edit delete them from our consciousness.  Let the trash take themselves elsewhere in their grubby lives, not going to let them in my head, or bring them to mums attention.  Me, I worked in music/arts festival industry for decades, so I don't pay no mind nor care if other folk think my friends are wearing / doing something they consider is weird  - wtf ever mate, you do you & we'll do us, lol.  If you don't draw attention to it, yr mom won't notice.  Draw her (and your) attention to something nice & let those aholes pass by.

It's good to find unobtrusive ways to help mum when she's confused, make it smoother & easier for her.  Choosing which glasses frames, or what to have at a cafe, or which movie to see, responding to somebodys question what she did yesterday  -  makes both our lives much simpler happier & stress-free.  eg - well you said you like the red frames cos you can see them when you put them down so why not get red ones / oh, I thought you didn't like the metal-frame ones - so better to get plastic-frame ones, right?  /  oh, cheese sandwiches sound good, or hey the minestrone looks great here?   /  oh, yes, yesterday walking in the park was lovely, there were daffodils blooming/that lady with the cute dog, wasn't there!  /  etc

I got free give-out properly printed ATM size-cards from Alzheimers Australia (now Dementia Australia) that say

&#x200B;

Understand Alzheimers                                                                                                                                                                                

Support        Australia

"Carer Card"

My companion has an illness which causes memory loss and confusion.

Please understand any unusual behaviour.

&#x200B;

The card is always in my purse with drivers licence etc.  At stores or in cabs or whatever, if I can see something maybe coming, I pull out the card and say to the person "oh could you please just check my ID" while holding it up showing it to them clearly.  It works.  Zero embarrassment for mum.

Check out the dementia .org &/ alzheimers .org for your area - they have tons of resources, help-sheets & leaflets, tips, etc for the memory lossed & friends / family / carers.  Loads of great tips how to help them communicate what they want to,  without being overbearing about it & impinging on their independence.   It's a journey, sensitively unobtrusively helping them to help themselves.  And learning to not let insensitive rude aholes get under your skin.  Best of luck to you both!
I thought my own mom was rude and embarassing before I knew she had dementia. People don’t always get it. 

When my mom was with me at Kohl’s before we even had a diagnosis, a lovely woman with her obviously confused husband said to me, “I understand how hard it is. You’re doing a good job.” I’ve never forgotten that last.
I made business cards that said "My companion suffers from dementia. He may become confused or frustrated. Thank you in advance for your patience and kindness."  

This cut down on stressful interactions by a large degree.
The only people who get anything are people who’ve been through whatever experience themselves. 

It’s the same for other health issues, definitely true for mental health. 

Other than that, the general population can’t be counted upon for decency, as frustrating as that is. Maybe 25% of people are all right and that includes people who have been there.
I managed in retail 30 years. Anytime I had an elderly customer I treated them as I wanted my parents to be treated. people are assholes, plain and simple. there is a lack of compassion tehse days. People see someone as different and weak and feel they have to act up. great enjoyment for their little pee-sized brains and hearts. These kinds of people will one day be in the same place.
The general public has no idea about dementia and anything unusual said or done is directly attributed to someone being a bad person. 

I have special disdain for the woke generation who claim to believe in equality and fairness yet have zero compassion and are quick to be judge, jury and executioner against anyone who may say something remotely not aligned with what they want - immediate label as Karen, evil person, bigot or something like that. She looks frail and sick now so mostly they treat her as if she is invisible - a person not even worth their time to acknowledge. Wonder how they will like being treated so when they get old.
I know this is hard watching a parent deteriorate, and it’s also infuriating, and unfair, and isolating, and sad, and oh so very apparent while out in public, and you might as well have a spotlight on you! Cause everyone is looking, and judging with impatient eye rolls and snickering under the breath comments and can’t they see that your just shopping with your lovely mother???  


…while you still can, 


…while you still have her, 


…and she still knows who you are? 


Damn them!! How dare they make this spotlight brighter! The ignorance of society and, and, and…


Mother’s smiling at me….


She doesn’t seem to even notice… 


What’s that mom? Yes. Yes, I enjoy our shopping trips too.


TLDR; fuck them, enjoy your mom.
My very elderly grandmother is still sharp as a tack, but she needs someone for stability while walking. She HATES that she gets talked over when SHE is the actual customer. I've gotten pretty good at just stepping back, or redirecting people to her.

It's awful. I'm sorry you're having to deal with this.
Anger is your choice. Unless they are blatantly rude to her, they aren't doing anything wrong. They are allowed to feel however they want about the things they have to deal with in life just as you and your mother are.

I think they caretakers that get upset with others are the same ones that get upset with or dragged down over the behavior of the one they are taking care of. Laughing at things is just as valid, if not more, as anger and frustration.
I'm genuinely not trying to be antagonistic, but if it's happening everywhere you go, maybe there is a behavior that you are not quite being honest with yourself about.  I can't imagine people talking behind her back to that degree if she is merely slow/spacey.

My uncle was special needs his whole life.  He never did figure out how to eat without being disgusting.  Smacking his lips, chomping with his mouth open, coughing with a mouth full of food so it spewed everywhere, food falling out of his mouth while he was chewing ... you could get used to it at home but you can't expect people in a restaraunt to put up with that.  I'm not exaggerating when I say that it could turn your stomach while eating.
> the nurse gave me an amused, conspiratorial wink.

My mom has made false accusations against me that got the police called to our house.  Thankfully, they were understanding and realized her accusations were nonsense.  I'm on several groups for caregivers of elderly parents and have heard many, many anecdotes similar to mine.

I would welcome such a wink.  My mother has had borderline personality disorder her whole life and has left a path of destruction in her wake ... except with people she just met.  Those people seem to LOVE her, so I welcome anyone who sees through her BS, even if she does have early dementia (which seems to be making every BPD symptom so much WORSE).

Remember that not all of us like our parents.  For some of us, our parents are lucky we still talk to them at all.  Again, any medical professional who doesnt put up with my mom's CRAP is a-okay in my book.
Your actions are helping other people who that doctor treats in the future, thank you
Dementia or not, it's not okay to be rude.  Not sure other people have to "get" that behavior.  Dementia is not an excuse to be abusive.
agreed. unfortunately, I have learned to adjust my expectations of the general population more and more as I have gotten older.
Dementia destroys filters. I said rude, not abusive.
Same, sadly.
