Depends on her level of dementia.  If its not serious yet she will know whats going on. If its severe then who knows. the thing you dont want to do is trick her into going there and leave her. She may feel trapped and betrayed and left forever. She needs to know this is whats best for her and that she is safe and secure and loved and will be visited every day. 

Bring plenty of her things from home and make her room look as much like home as you can. she will be lost for awhile and if she has memory issues may experience confusion every time she wonders where she is. If theres anything she knows its her home, her routine. Try and find out her routine and help her establish as close to the same as you can. Help her to incorporate the new into a routine she can handle. She will need constant reminders, love and reassurance. 

One tip. If she loves music make sure she has something with her music on it so she can listen. Depending on accomodation you can have an alexa etc device handy or even set up so yours and hers can video call. that way you folks can visit and see each other. 

Hopefully, she will come to understand that she is not being thrown away and abandoned, but put in a safe place. i wish you the best of luck, its never easy.
I did both. For my dad, we told him his house needed work and he was going to stay in care until the repairs were done.  After a time, we changed that to tell him that once he could handle all of his "acts of daily living" which I posted on his memory board.  Of course, he was never able to recover any of them.  

My MIL was early enough that we explained everything and she reluctantly agreed.

In both cases, they blamed us for "imprisoning" them and were angry and resentful.  Most dementia patients don't seem able to understand how much help they require.  In their heads, they are still the competent, self-sufficient person they used to be and they deeply resent anyone who tries to constrain them.  It really is a no-win scenario.  All we can do is keep them safe and accept that they are going to resent and even hate us for it.
Both of my parents are loosing it my step sister niece and I had them set up in a very nice retirement village with a step down. It was the best in are larger southern city (Assisted living -Memory care unit-nursing home etc) first floor two bedroom granit etc.. They ended up backing out last minute after first month paid. Now it’s a complete a shit show. The medication crises alone are averaging twice a week and then you add the rest. They have been amazing parents and we just want them to have great care including us being very involved on the regular but backed out and won’t budge. It’s been really hard and thank the lord there are more than one of us.
We told him he had a stroke (which he did) and the doctor said he should be there until he gets better and stronger. He seemed to be ok with that, at least that's what we think.
My dad didn’t end up putting my mom in a home, but we did have issues initially getting her to a doctor and diagnosed. I agree with the other commenter, either don’t say anything at all or lie if you have to. I know lying to a loved one feels absolutely horrible, but the goal is keeping her safe and calm, as well as making sure you dad also takes care of himself — the ends justify the means. If you want to avoid lying, you maybe able to just redirect (i.e. she brings up something and you bring up something entirely different to distract from her original thought pattern).

Hang in there. It’s a rough road, but it’s not forever. 💜
My dad was still pretty logical when we moved him so we told him the truth: "Since you can't drive and you live alone we think it's best you move to a retirement home" was the jist. There were times in the beginning he expressed that he wanted to be in his own home living autonomously but as time went on he settled in, got some friends, and enjoys all the amenities that come with a nursing home. Now he thinks he is living in an apartment that is somehow connected to his old job so he is "working" there. I'd recommend getting as close to the truth as possible but don't be afraid to skew the truth in a way that is appealing to her. It's definitely been a good thing that we got my dad in the home earlier so he has had a change to familiarize himself with the place while he still has the ability to. Best of luck to you!
I really don't think you need to tell anything to her.  I would just say lets go to the store and you end up at the nursing home.

She will think its a place she works, or where her friends are , some long lost location that she hasn't visited in years.  That's what my mom did - she actually kept telling me she was working there and helping the other "residents".

Not sure what you mean by disability - No government agency in the US recognizes Demential as a disability (If the patient can still feed themself's, put on clothes, walk without assistance, comb their hair they are not considered disabled by government standards. ) sad but true.

Start loving your mom!  Give her hugs, kisses and talk to her as much as you can.  Ask her about her childhood and record - if those memories still exist and you get them they will be work their weight in GOLD!

I wish you the best of luck!!!
Try it out. Truth first. Get her in the here and now in the conversation, kindly mention some dementia issues, and that you are considering a home. Let it sink in, and see how she reacts. 

If needed, add lies.

Remember that she won't remember everything, so even if you have to tell her 500 times. Tell her like it's the first time.
This can be tricky.  With my mother, we were just very up front. She knew she had dementia and even knew she was having issues living at home.  We told her it was time to go to a nursing home and that arrangements had been made.  She understood and agreed to go.  

My wife was  a completely different story. She was in denial about having dementia and would never have consented to go to a nursing home.  I didn't say anything, we just went.  When we got there, she thought it was her dad's office and that she was going to see him at his office.  (Her dad had been a physician and the nursing home did have some resemblance to what his office used to look like.  Of course, he had been dead for 25 years, but ...).  By the time we got her checked in and all paperwork filled out, I'm pretty sure she knew, or at least suspected, what was up and I had to "sneak out" while they were getting her blood pressure and some other things.

She is acclimated to it now, and I can take her out for lunch and then take her back and she happily walks in. She considers it "home."
This. Not noticing how much other people are doing. Like people are doing the cleaning and shopping and hill paying and cooking etc. *because that's what a social visit is*.
That last part is super important!! I worked at a dementia facility for a while and we were trained that they might not remember what you did or said but they usually have some awareness of how you made them feel so always be kind and patient.
