Ah brutal, we had this in my dads last few months at home. He was obsessed, he’d go through 20 tools in 5 days. Overflowed toilets, extreme buying 


We started to ration him tp. In strips. Regardless, our scenario at-home care no longer became feasible.
As a former plumber do not use flushable wipes, they are not really flushable and will cause more long term issues (plumbing wise)

Would a bidet toilet seat be a possibility, I understand learning a new thing like that while struggling with dementia is difficult
They might have to get something like a Champion toilet installed and have a plunger always ready.  You can't make your parents listen so I wouldn't make this your problem.
I would lay out ample sheets of toilet paper in the bathroom, a bit more than is needed to get the job done but no more than that.

My mom flushed a washcloth so I’m leery of leaving those around.  And the flushable wipes can really clog up your sewer system despite their name.

It’s so hard.  They make bidet-type attachments for the toilet and that might be an option.
Maybe try leaving a small, reasonable amount of pre-portioned paper available in the open for him? And then leave the actual rolls or wipes in a hidden spot for the rest of the family? You could try hiding the rolls in a decorative box near the toilet
Bidet attachment Stat. And a small safe (I'm not kidding) in the bathroom for the toilet paper. And leave out a very small amount for him.
Install a bidet?
In addition to rationing, you could try the RV toilet paper that disintegrates quickly - might cut down on the clogs.
All good ideas but I do hope you realise that you may resolve one obsession and it can be replaced quickly. My Mums was smoking, then toileting, then clothes, then food and sweets etc. Add in naked wandering and toileting in 7nusual places and absconding she was hard work! So be prepared! Its part and parcel of the disease and keeps you on your toes.
I give dad(89yo) time on the riser, then warm a baby wipe with hot water and a tiny bit of Johnson's baby soap, squeeze to distribute soup, then hand it to him. We do another warm soapy wipe until he's clean. He wipes down the front side too using these warm soapy wipes (usually at brief change)(he can't reach to his feet to put fresh brief on so I help)
On his hands I use aloe vesta foam cleanser (available on amazon) fecal destroyer.
When his nails look bad/gross or need a trim, I put diluted hydrogen peroxide & baby soap in a small hospital tub, he places both hands in the water (while sitting in front of tv) for about 30min, then it's easy to clip his nails an they're all clean from the soaking
Stock up on tp and tell him to throw it away in the trash instead of the toilet. We have the same problem with my dad.
Oh the joy of it all.
Unfortunately I thin he needs to go to a home but my step dad will not have it even though the other siblings tell him otherwise. Maybe I will start rationing specifically in my bathroom to start with.
I told my parents not to get them because of that. Like lectured them. But obviously they didn’t listen.
I’ve read this too, even though the box says they are flushable.
No I can’t, but it does turn into my problem when there’s poop on my rugs in my bathroom and he doesn’t say anything then I do so luckily find it. Lol. I’ve actually never heard of a champion toilet? I’ll have to check into that. And I have to watch him when my parents leave the state. I never thought this would turn this chaotic so quickly.
I tried looking for some of those on Amazon. But I couldn’t find to many. We could try the pre portions. I don’t know how well it’ll work. Because he always thinks he needs more and will dig around in my bathroom opening ever door and drawer If his is empty.
I have taken all my Tp and have hidden it in my room. Or else he will look everywhere. Every drawer. In the shower.
So is the bidet attachment like a hose they have to use? My fear is having spray all over the bathroom. Is that an issue?
Alright. Im going to look for one on Amazon right now. I do have a lock box but it’s not very big.
Just bought one on Amazon
I’ll check that out too! Haven’t heard of it.
Okay, thank you for telling me. I hope it doesn’t go to that extreme. But he’s already starting wandering at 3am at times.
Oh, I push the trash can to toilet, and repeatedly say, put it in the trash, Not the water.
If he drops it in the water, I make him fish it out
Then a soapy baby wipe for hands along with the vista foam
Unfortunately he will dig in the trash and use it
Yes, it happen two times now. No matter what you say it registers until he was more TP then it’s out the window
Yeah, until he is out of your care, use a few strips rationed and then that’s it. 

For us, this turned into poop fondelling. He would poop in the kitchen, carry his poop around etc. I would be very cautious as for us, the obsession with TP was very closely aligned with a UTIa which induced delirium. If you are every in doubt or there is a rapid deterioration, have him tested for a UTI.
if it's short term its not the end of the world, it can potentially never cause an issue. Some times it can be easier to just try to make a person happy and deal with a plumbing bill later
yeah they are decpetive
That sucks.  I'd pack away all the soft goods in my bathroom and bring them in only when I were using it.  It's unfair of them to expect you to be his caregiver.  You don't say your age but I'd be planning an exit ASAP.  Too many people don't realize how traumatic it is to use their children as adjunct caregivers for their parents.  What would be the response if you insisted on being paid the going rate for elderly caregivers?
This is so bad lmao. I would absolutely freak out. Good luck!
I would just remove your bathroom rugs to make it more hygienic. Does my house look like a hospital with all the safety bars and modified toilet and shower—yes. Yes it does. No bathroom mats or rugs. It’s just more laundry for me to do.
If he's digging around in the bathroom, put toddler safety latches on the doors and drawers.  

My mom had to go to memory care and all her bathroom drawers are locked.  I am surprised that they have a paper towel dispenser on the wall in her bathroom as now I wonder if some people try and flush those.
It depends on which model you get. Many are hands-free and just spray off the area while the person is sitting on the toilet. They are wonderful in that situation. 

Also, in case the poop/ toilet paper interest is sensory, consider giving him access to things like silly putty and playdoh to see if that might meet the need.
Be prepared for him to not like it it, not understand it, refuse to use it, etc.
scott tissue is pretty thin and septic safe
We put latches on the outside doors so my grandmother couldn't leave. It allowed me to sleep better as I didn't have to follow her every time she got up. Now I'm also using a baby/pet gate in the hallway at nighttime so she can only go to the bathroom or our bedrooms, but not out into the rest of the house.

Latches installed high on the doors https://smile.amazon.com/dp/B08B35YC3C
I have the exact opposite problem, he attempts to wipe clean with only 2 squares, lol, that why I assist (most of the time) with warm baby wipes
Really? That would save toilet paper I guess.
He had a UTI and pneumonia. That’s when he came here. But I definitely will ration. And watch for that. Thank you
Whoa. I knew folks got more interested in their poo, but was not aware it extended this far. My mom's always wanting to show us what she pooped out, I hope it doesn't escalate.
I’m over the age of living at home. Haha. But yeah, The house thing will be arranged soon but it’s that time of waiting ya know? When I tell them about it basically it’s “Just gotta deal for now”. None of the other siblings will help. Just kinda stuck in limbo for now.
Yep I definitely did. Lol and thanks!
That is a great idea! Thank you! I would have never thought of that. And they probably do.
I work in a memory care unit, from my experience the residents leave the paper towel dispensers alone. They’re usually too far from the toilet to be a feasible wiping option. They also make a lot of noise, so if someone was grabbing 5+, someone would hear it.
I've been thinking about getting the locks for our bathroom cabinet. She doesn't open them often, but there's too much in there that could harm her or she could make a mess.
I mean I’m ready. He has his own bathroom. So there’s no need to use mine if he won’t like it. I’m not trying to sound mean or crass. It’s the truth.
Does she try to get through the baby gate?
I mean that does sound worse. Most definitely. I’m glad you have a system down. Sometimes it seems hard to even start one with the “I’m lost” complex competing with the autism.
That made me laugh. But it’s true
My mom had several UTIs in a short period and ended up on a catheter for about 6 weeks. She certainly showed signs of confusion, etc. the UTI kept returning and I was fearful that it was contamination from wiping since her mobility is somewhat limited. At the same time she had an impacted large intestine. I took her to a urologist after her hospital stay. They gave her stool softeners and medication. It wasn’t the wiping giving her the UTIs, it was a damaged bladder and since she has been taking the meds she hasn’t had another infection. But I can attest she was very confused and compromised mentally from the infections. That was really what tipped me off-she was saying she hadn’t seen my son in weeks when he had just come by to see her. Fortunately, the delusional part went away after she was better. I thought the catheter would be a nightmare to maintain but it really wasn’t bad at all. No accidents in the night. Luckily she’s better now and the catheter is out. She does her own TP rationing though. We just fold it in packets and leave them on her sink and she uses them. Issues around the toilet are always a factor . She’s 96 and so far treatment has been successful. I would definitely have your loved one checked out for UTI if he seems more confused than normal. That’s really the only symptom elderly folks have of an infection
Unfortunately, it probably will. The exploration of non-edible items will likely also follow in later stages. For us, it was 1 tube of toothpaste every 2 days, and quite possibly feces.
I’m the only sibling helping with anything. No one wants to know about my mom. If love is measured by acts of charity, my brothers have failed miserably. I’ve been 100% caretaker for my mom since 2014. My brothers took off for the hills.
I'm with you on that. No matter how much you accommodate some people, it won't be enough, so it's up to you to draw the line in a place that works for you. It's never going to work again for the people with dementia, and we don't improve their lives by giving up ours.
Not so much anymore. I think I've only seen her once easily open the gate that is by the 2 steps down. I also have a reusable zip tie holding the lever arm closed. I've never seen her yet to open the larger gate in the hallway. She'll tell me she doesn't know how to open the door/gate. I tell her that it's up/closed at night and will open when it's time to get up. That seems to work. She also has a walker and that usually will run into the gates first
Dad has dementia, I understand the "I'm lost", every night it's "where am I going to sleep" over an over..ugh..
I do have him on the waiting list for our local Veteran's Home. 
Poke me with a stick, I'm almost done
It's good to know what to be on the lookout for. I have such trouble with anything poo-related, I literally projectile vomited on my mom when she was showing me hers (no warning, just *bam* all over) and since then I just realized I can't look at it, so at least I can steel myself as much as possible knowing it might be coming.
I definitely commend you. It isn’t easy and it seems to get more difficult.
Huh. Okay. I might have to try that for my hall way. Long as he won’t try to fiddle with it for 25 minutes. Thank you for your suggestions and answer.
Congratulations!
It also grosses me or, but luckily no vomiting. I have had to wipe/clean my grandmother from her pudding like poop. It's sometimes fallen to the floor when pulling down her underwear. I'm getting better, but poop on her fingers still is disgusting.
No problem. You can also maybe set up the gate with the lever on the outside of where he will be. That might it harder for him to open.

We already hada few gates so it was easy to try them out
Okay thanks. The only problem is I have a cat. So I would have to find one with a cat walk through or something. I’ll have to check out some.
We leave the pet gate up off the floor a foot or so. The cats walk under easily. So far it has not occurred to her to get on the floor and crawl/push under
Okay! Awesome. Thank you! That would certainly save some hassle.
I apologize, could you refer me to one like you use?
