I’ve seen this a lot in dementia care. We give them things to fold rather than try to stop it. It’s their remaining brain function finding comfort in ritual and order.
This is valuable information for you. How about getting dad some colored, patterned paper for origami or for his own origami-ish activities?
This brought back a memory of a neighbor who used to do this. We bought him a present of cloth napkins in every color and a napkin caddy. He got a lot of enjoyment from that. He also used to come sit with us and watch the "Baby Einstein" and "I Love Toy Rrains" videos with us while his wife ran errands etc. I had very small children at the time, and it was great for her to get some time, and he really enjoyed being at our house with us. You might see if either of those video series would interest him. Neither has a plot, but they are engaging and fun to watch-- perfect for dementia tia patients. He also enjoyed a DVD we had which was scenes of  puppies and kittens and other animals playing, sleeping, and eating.
Thank your stars that it's not what I deal with. I wish my dad was focused on something constructive instead of destructive.
I have heard of Fiddle Muffs, or twiddle gloves for dementia patients. They're more like wrist warmers, and are mostly used to calm fidgety hands, but for your father, you could use velcro and give him shapes to stick to his gloves. 

I've attached a link, to give you an idea of what I'm talking about. 


https://dementiainsider.com/gloves-and-mitts-for-dementia/
ok thanks and what I thought. i give him plenty to play with. he will be rehabbing the next few weeks so maybe I should take him something to play with.
he might really enjoy the paper. he has tremors tho and has trouble doing anything like origami. But I might be able to find something similarThank you.
Before his pneumonia id say those videos would be to kiddy for him. hes still quite aware mentally. But at this point his neurologist is overmedicating him and hes turning into a zombie. sorry, pretty upset at this point. i think ill get him some paper and napkins tho and see once he gets to rehab.

Thank you
yep, From the many things ive read I am very grateful he is as good as he is. there was a time about a year and a half ago where he was trying to take his own meds and taking a parkinsons med that was scattered throughout the day. He was up and down. usually maybe 5-6 up and then 2-3 down. the downs got worse until he started the hallucinations and couldnt walk. Took him to his neuro and she gave him the extended release version, plus I started handling his meds after I dsicovered he had taken several days worth of several meds. Luckily none that could have been fatal. He quickly came back toan even keel. But yes I know it could and may be so much worse.
Ok—so maybe scrap the origami for whatever paper folding seems rewarding and fun for him. I recently saw a really cool arts and crafts activity for people with dementia. It seemed adaptable to different ability levels, and not baby-ish or insulting to someone’s intelligence. Do you want me to see if I can find the video?
The train videos are great-- many adults love model trains. It is just footage of intricate train layouts, set to music!
My dad started helping himself to meds but luckily they aren't hardcore. What he did was pee in all sorts of places around the house. I didn't even realize it was happening for a long time. He started pooping on the floor, then would step in it and track it all over the house and try to clean it up with his hands, forget and then put it somewhere. I would wake up or come home and find poop and pee smeared all over the place.
 A complete nightmare. I'm not a victim type, but I'm sure I have some sort of ptsd from it. I have nightmares that wake me up. That my dad is peeing right in the middle of the living room again.
If its not too much trouble sure. If nothing else ill just get him some napkins. He sleeps if theres nothing to do and his neuro doc is overmedicating him so presently hes like a zombie, trying to fix that.
Might have to search, when dad was younger he had some model trains so he would enjoy it I think, thanks
oh my goodness. Only had this once. My dad has a shower chair in the bathroom to sit on since he cant stand for any length of time. I noticed he was headed to bed and went to make sure he made it ok. Got to the doorway and there he was standing bent over in front of the chair, had draped a towel on it at least and was taking a dump. no idea why as the toilet was 5 feet away. Its stressful when theyre a bit out of it and say things that dont exist. My worstr stress tho is right now from his neurologist, who is overmedicating him and hes sleeping all day. My first call they told me things unrelated to what I was telling them and then told me beyond that they cant help. I cant get to talk to his neurologist or doctors in the hospital. theyre killing him and no one will listen. Im calling them tomorrow and if they wont listen I will get an atty and take legal action and sue them for the bill.
Yeah—I agree. Don’t get too caught up in the details. I’m glad you’re trying to find a way for him to stay alert and engaged. He’s lucky to have you! 

If you’d like, I’ll try to find the video. Comment here or send me a message. It was on YouTube, and it was by a wonderful company called CaringKind.  Their online caregiver support is free and really wonderful. (I don’t work for them, and I’m not trying to sell you any services or anything. I just really love their free online programming.)
Found it, looks good

thx again
cool and thanks, will do a search for the name, i'll find it.

In all honesty he wouldnt have been able to do anything without me and would have wasted away in a home. He has parkinsons and dementia a bit and barely walks with a walker, im not sure he thinks ive done him any favors. But I will do all I can to take good care of him. This is my hill to die on,
Listen. You’re a great daughter, but please don’t do this alone. CaringKind is just one resource that offers VERY PRACTICAL ways for you to help your dad navigate this. 

I have worked with a lot of senior citizens who have dementia, and I’m frustrated that more doctors don’t encourage people to learn about the very helpful ways in which they can make life more enjoyable and comfortable for people suffering from dementia—as well as their caregivers. 

I’d like to again say this very clearly: I’m not trying to sell you any services or products. I have a real heart for elders, and I hate to see
unnecessary suffering on top of the already existent suffering that comes with dementia.

Here’s a link for the creative activities: https://youtu.be/uwpIvjp-qsc

I really encourage you to check out the rest of their site. They even have a helpline you can call (for free!).
