I wouldn't tell her if it will only cause stress and take a toll on her. If she was very attached to the cat, you could look into getting a pillow pet made to look like it. I found a website that would print a picture of our cat onto a cat shaped pillow (variety of types online). I just had to upload a clear picture. I had it made for our son after his cat passed. He sleeps with it. You could present it as "Since our cat is getting treated and going to be away for a while we got this to keep it close." Or however you wish to phrase it. She may eventually stop asking.
I don't have advice but I wanted to say that I'm sorry you're in this difficult position.
I think Garden_bug has offered a great solution.  If your Mother wants something more interactive you can also get her a robotic cat.  I bought my Mom one that is the same colour as her previous cat.  The cat murmurs, meows and does slight movements - like a cat cuddled up on your lap.  Amazon sells them for $150 (Ageless innovation).  It might make her feel less alone while she is confined to bed. 
Wishing you all the best.
Hi, I’m sorry about your situation. It is difficult and delicate. I’m pretty new at all of this myself so I don’t know if this the right thing to do but I would lie (silently cringing). I would make up some story that communicates the idea that your cat is better w another person/household (your cat made friends w another cat at the vet and they have become inseparable….? He/she deserves a furry friend?)

I’m totally framing this based upon my mother’s current capacity to process things. At this point she can still empathize so she would see it from the cat’s position and see the benefit for the cat.   Then repetitive positive framing that the cat is so happy where he/she is if it’s brought up again.
Thank you very much! This is actually a very nice idea. 

Also, you are a great parent for thinking to do so.
Thank you, kind human! Really appreciate it.
Thank you for the tip!
Thank you very much for your answer. I think this idea would be the best for my situation. I have another cat at my place and I will tell my mom that they get along so well that I decided to keep them together. Eventually I believe she will stop asking me about it. I think she will also be be happy to hear that they became such good friends.
