oh boy, OP, I empathize. I was in your situation 5 months ago. Unfortunately I found no way to stop my dad from trying to get up, pulling out his O2 saturation monitor, pulling off his BP cuff, figuring out if he needed to ACTUALLY go to the bathroom, etc, except to just sit and hold his hand and stop him each time. We did end up putting a glove over his hand with the O2 saturation monitor on it and that helped a bit. My mom and I had to just trade off watching him and keeping him still since the ICU bed had a sensor and would go off every time he tried to get up. I'm sorry, OP. I wish I had some ideas for you. Sometimes hospitals can offer a sitter; the one my dad was in could not so it was up to my mom and I to try to help out the nurses
I also have dealt with in hospital delrium and it was one of the worse 8 hours of my life. They only let me stay in these covid times to prevent him from pulling out all the tubes and he thankfully has no memory of it. And that's what is likey going on there too. His requests are distressing you but he probably will not remember any specifics when he is discharged. So try to be at peace that he is in a place where is cared for and safe. I like the idea of photos of old cars or may be a photo from his childhood. It may help to bring up a memory. Or play a familiar song. Nothing too over stimulating but old families
Things may help them.and gives you something to focus on during the visit. You are kind to visit!
We watched videos on zinniatv.com. Perfect for dementia patients. Calming.
If you can try playing his favorite music, maybe will soothe him a bit. I was visiting my dad in rehab today. he got sick first day in and was coughing bad and nodding off. After an hour and a half I left. I figure im not doing much good when he keeps closing his eyes. The hospital over medicated him and now he gets sick first day in rehab. I really felt bad for him. 

Best of luck
Many will find my suggestion harsh but believe me my intentions are good. If his actions are making his situation more dangerous or delaying his hospital stay, then there is an option of using restraints and a specialist can advice short acting antipsychotic like haloperidol so that optimum treatment is administered. 

It was used for mom for few days and yes some part of me died seeing her like that but delirium and pulling out cannulas or tubes etc is much more dangerous. The restraints doesnot have to be of hard material so less bruising even if patient is very agitated.
Could you read to him? Is there an author he likes?
Actually your reply does help a lot because I don’t feel so alone in my struggle. It helps me to know that my grandpa isn’t the only feisty one who won’t calm down lol they put a glove on his hand too. It’s only me able to watch him and sit with him because Cleveland Clinic is only allowing one designated visitor at a time. Ugh
I’m so sorry you had to experience that but I’m glad they let you stay and that he has no memory of it. My grandpa has been experiencing this for the last week and all of the nurses are done. I can tell. They got sassy with me when I rescinded the DNR. “Well he just told me that he wanted to die.” Okay but he’s not in his right mind. When I’ve asked he mouthed “not die. Go home.” It’s exhausting having to keep explaining over and over again but at least I’m working on my patience lol thank you for your suggestions! I’m actually thinking of uploading recordings of some family voices reading to calm him. Hopefully that works.
Hell, that works for me, and I don't have dementia. Could use stress relief.
They actually have restrained his wrists with soft cuffs but they say that keeping him on strong antipsychotic meds because....they won’t really explain why. They say it’ll make his brain function worse. I don’t think these nurses really understand delirium and dementia because when I mention it they always give me a funny look.
But I completely agree with you on how pulling tubes and cannulas out is much worse and will only delay his stay. He’s not cognitive enough to realize that for more than a few seconds.
Thank you for your reply. He stopped really reading books after awhile so I have no idea what he likes. He also tends to keep tapping my hand to get my attention and then asks for help to sit up. I’ll try and see if I can find an article about cars or something—or maybe bring his car magazines.
Hell i dont think even the so called specialists understand much about dementia and delirium, they just throw meds and see if anything works, we the loved ones have to bear the burden of the bad side effects of those drugs
Maybe you can find online articles about older cool cars he would have been into when he was 20ish. 50 years ago would be early 70’s so you could be looking up stuff like classic camaros and mustangs and stuff, or even the cars that would have been classic when he was a kid, like bel airs.
Books and magazines with a lot of pictures can be good. I bought a Life magazine special issue about dogs last summer when traveling with my mother-in-law who has dementia, and she really liked looking at the pictures.
