Don't worry about it.  It's possible, of course.  There are hereditary factors. There are also contributory lifestyle factors too, so that old eat right and exercise thing helps.

Planning for care in your future is wise no matter what the possibilities are.  

I wouldn't factor it into your decision to have kids.  People always say to childless people "who will care for you when you're older?" and childless me replies "There's no guarantee children will outlive me or be willing or able to care for me when I get older."  

In short, it's all a crapshoot.  Make the best choices you can in life, and strive for your happiness and the wellbeing of those you love.  

That being said, your mom's current unhappiness/negativity may not be permanent.  She may be depressed, or it may be a stage of her dementia, or she may be frustrated by her memory issues - it could be a lot of things.  Bring it up with her doctor.
Do you have more of it in your family?  I've begun to accept that it will most likely happen to me as it has to my mother, her sister, and their uncle.
When you're in the midst of caring for dementia, it seems as if everyone is doomed to suffer it.  Many, many people live into their 90's still sharp of mind.  The best insurance is living a healthy life.  Limit sugar, stay fit and eat the [MIND](https://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/nutrition-and-healthy-eating/in-depth/improve-brain-health-with-the-mind-diet/art-20454746) diet as much as possible.
Family history is one of the leading factors. Both my grandfather and great-uncle suffered from dementia/Alzheimer's before passing at old age. Watching my grandfather trying to maintain information was always a test of patience as he lost recent conversations in a matter of seconds and would ask the same questions every minute. I was told my grandfather's brother, my great-uncle had one of the worst cases of Alzheimer's and had to be placed in an assisted living facility with a 24-hour watch put in place as he wandered to unfamiliar places, even when he drove. 

However, the women in my family didn't seem to lose the ability to judge and maintain emotions, but both my grandmothers have said that their depression will get bad at times, like real bad. So, I am hoping that I have a support system in case my depression get bad, but I do come from a close-knit family so I think I am in good hands. Having family support is always good to have in such cases.
I watch my mom degrade as well and I think it is on most of our minds.  One definite factor is movement and exercise.  Most doctors I have spoken to will tell you exercise is the leading promoter of neurogenesis in adult brains.  Don't let this dictate how you live your life.  I have 4 kids and will never regret having children.  You have to believe you will not because obsessing over whether you will is counter productive.  Be well!
I think about this all the time. My dad has dementia and Parkinson's. I brought it up to my mom the other day and she said that there are sometimes tests you can get done, but you really have to live for the now. Nobody can determine what exactly is going to happen, so why dwell on it and have that negativity. It might happen and it might not.
I wonder the same thing. I refuse to research it and I don’t read what people say on posts like this. I’d rather not know.


My sorry for your loss and wish the best.

My dad at 89 died and he had this, thinking back when we went to Mexico to visit my grandfather he had it also.

My dad came to the USA because he wanted his children to have a better life.

There is a chance that I will get it to and I have two sons they are both physical therapist. The truth is we all are going to die of something. My son's or there children may be the ones the help find a cure for dementia.

I'm 60 yrs old and from every thing that I read says to stay physically and mentally active to prevent dementia.

Both my in-laws got cancer and passed, cancer was not any better than dementia.

My goal is to leave enough money so my grandchildren can go on to educate themselves and help humanity move a few steps forward.
Mom often said "why can't I remember things?"
We cheerfully said " you know that is why you had kids, we help you remember!" She got all happy!
Me too. It sucks.
