We were in a similar sitch in 2017 when own dad with Alz got booted from a nursing home that he entered (temporarily) following a brief stay at the ER when he could no longer walk. This place charged $12k per month and had a 2-3 year wait for any Medicaid beds so no way he could stay!

Right now, get yourself a board certified estate planning attorney in your state because they can help you to get Medicaid by completing the entire process on your behalf! 

It will help if your dad already has a will (or trust) but this is not required. Instead, when you speak with someone at the law firm, ask them if they would be willing to charge you a flat fee rather than an hourly rate if you gather all the required paperwork on your dad’s behalf (rather than you paying them by the hour to do this for you - trust me, MUCH too expensive). 

If they say no to a flat fee then keep looking. Also, be sure to visit the state licensing agency for attorneys in your state (in Texas, this is called the State Bar but it ain’t for drinkin’)! :D

Instead, when you visit this site, you can lookup the license status for the attorney you may want to hire just to make sure they don’t have any disciplinary actions on file and to ensure their license is current. 

Please never attempt to do this yourself or with any online legal forms since these matters are always complex and require expert legal advice. It’s not cheap but in 2017 we paid a flat fee for the attorney to handle everything with Medicaid from start to finish (and to complete the probate process after his death since he already had a will). In your situation, the key is the attorney was able to find a facility that had available beds and accepted Medcaid so he didn’t need to wait!

Sending you much compassion and promise. Am sorry that your dad is suffering with FTD. We dementia daughters need to stick together!

*Edit*
You also may want to contact the hospice in your area because they can might provide free additional care to your dad after an exam by their staff MD.
Is your dad a military veteran? If he is a veteran, look into the program "Patriot Angels" as a they help people pay  for assisted living costs.
