I would suggest you and your brother work together on the move. One of you takes mom out for a nice lunch and maybe a drive around town. The other of you takes her stuff to her new home and set up her room with her belongings. Once lunch and the drive around town are done, drive up to the center, take her inside, and take her to her new room that is already set up for her. Many on this sub have used this approach and recommend it.
We went through this with my mother.  I don't know where you live, but we couldn't move her against her will until after we spent big money and went through the gut wrenching emotional process of getting guardianship.  She refused to have help come into the house, and none of the agencies would send anyone unless she agreed, even with the guardianship.  (My brother had POA for everything, but that wasn't sufficient.)

Anyway, I had her come visit at my house for a couple of days, and then my brother and I took her to the assisted living facility instead of her house.  She wasn't thrilled, but she was also confused enough that she wasn't positive it wasn't her home.  Those couple of days away from her actual house seemed to help the transition. 

Sorry you are dealing with this.  I still feel guilty about all of it, even though I know it was best for her.  She absolutely was not physically safe in her house, and she was giving out her banking information to telemarketers who called several times per day.  

Good luck!!
Telling her that she's moving is not going to make any different to her one way or the other so I would just stop as it will only start an argument as the disease is stress enough alone.

When you are taking her to her knew home, don't mention it, just say you are going for a ride and you'll end up at the assisted living place.  Say you are going to visit someone and then introduce her to the staff and let them guide and help you with getting her to her room. 

I know, its hard, you feel like you want to just jump in and handle everything.  In this case, your should talk to the A/L folk, work a plan and give them the power to take it from when you step in the door.

Best wishes to you - I know how difficult this is.
I understand how you feel. It's sad and feels pretty terrible, yes, especially knowing that she's not going to take it well. But as you said, it's doing the right thing for her, and you don't need to feel any guilt over that.

I'm currently in a position with my mom where I've exhausted all options and am going to petition for an involuntary psych eval for her. They'll come and get her, take her to a hospital/facility, and assess her mental state. I know it's going to be an awful experience for her, but if I don't do it then it means I don't care about her. 

Sometimes, we're left with no options that feel good. But doing what you believe is right is something you'll never regret.

Good luck and I hope your mom does well in her new home.
I would talk with the Director or social worker of the assisted living facility.  They are knowledgeable in dealing with this issue and can offer guidance and support about getting her there.  They can also help your mother navigate the adjustment phase.  I know this is a difficult choice, but if your mother needs more care than can be provided at home this is the right decision.  Sending you best wishes.
I agree with many here, had a horrible transition with my mother, but not long after she settled.  Medications were regular and adjusted and she became much happier (forgetting home and even us at times).  

I am so sorry you are going through this and sending my best wishes and hopes this will go smoother for you and your family.
My mom "fought" her move to an "independent living facility" in a different State all the way through.   She concocted various objections - nearly all around COVID issues ("too many cases in the State/City/etc.") - but we just sort of nodded and agreed and kept her moving toward the date of her flight out. 

Took her to the airport and made sure she got on the plane my sister picked her up on the other end then got her to the facility and it basically all went fine.  

Honestly it was absolutely the best thing for her.  She did not like living with us and of course we did not particularly like her living with us either.  Lots of arguing and disagreements.  It was time for a change.  

She's actually pretty happy there, really likes the food, and generally just says "it's really nice here."  She's more or less stopped saying she wants to move out and back to the city she lived in for 17-ish years where we originally moved her from.
Just went through the same thing few months ago.  Down to the last minute she hadn't packed and kept saying she wasn't going. I spent 2 hours filling my car and said easy way or hard way you're going.. sadly.... I've been bringing her items she needs for months. Talk to her dr about back up strategy
make her room as much like home as possible. her cat will freak out too. make sure theres a way to play her favorite music, it may soothe her. Hopefully she makes a friend. just make sure you explain it to her as often as she needs. You might make her a poster tat tells her where she is, and that shes ok and all is well, that you love her and will call her later. Put it where she will see it. Call often, visit often. If you can visit then do skype, anything. Bring/send her flowers often, bring her a teddy bear. 

Youre going to feel like shit no matter what. But its the right thing. You want to keep her safe even if it makes her unhappy.

My dad, last 2 weeks has had aspirated pneumonia twice, is stretched out in the hospital, his voice all but gone and cant stand or walk. he wants to come home. But he cant. he has hopefully this week in hospital and then a SNF for rehab to walk alittle then he can come home. With everything not being able to communicate just makes him so depressed. he has PD and tremors so cant even write.

I wish you the best of luck, hang in there.
I wouldn't mention that she's moving home,  i would however arrange a visit to the new place for an afternoon. Spend the day with her pointing out all the great features/activities/gardens/friendly faces. That way when she does have rare lucid moments it will feel somewhat familiar and not a strange new scary place. I would set her room up before her arrival on moving day, all familiar comforting items in plain sight. A spray of her scent around the fabrics so it feels more welcoming for her. There is no easy or correct way and you know her best, do what you can based on that. Good luck and strength to you ❤
we had my mom transported directly from the ER after one of her many 911 calls (anxiety).

The facility should have advice. Sometimes you walk in together and the. go out to the car to get something and don’t return right away. It’s cruel but helps them settle.
Agreed. We've found that telling my mom (also LBD) in advance that she has a doctor's appointment coming up causes her stress - she remembers there's something she needs to do soon, though she doesn't necessarily remember what (which is even more stressful), so we just don't mention anything that's going to happen unless it's happening NOW. 

We are eventually going to have to move her to a home as well, and on a gut level it feels *so wrong* not to tell her about that, but rationally I realize that the only thing advance notice will do is cause her stress and maybe generate arguments, and it won't change anything on the day of the move anyway.
Independent? Assisted wouldn’t even take my mom…had to be memory.
Yea I hear you.  My mom has milder dementia but definitely has it.   

True assisted living is not within her or our means to afford.  As it is she can just barely squeak by using my dad’s social security.  

Basically if she needs medical attention they make sure she gets it — she’s already had a small heart attack since she’s been there — and can take her to Wal-Mart and the like whenever she wants to go.  All 3 meals are provided and she has a small room with a bathroom.  

Basically if she ever needs true nursing care she’ll have to be medically deemed and probably will be able to get Medicaid.
