Someone needs to call her doctor and get her on some medication to get her settled down.  If you don't this is just going to continue and she will injure herself more than she is already.  Good luck.
She probably needs pain management and probably more that Tylenol.   Pain  one of the major reason that may cause behaviour change in people with dementia.   Talk to your doctor about pain management.
Nightmare for sure, holy god. 

I would put it to r/askdocs

But yes ask her doctor!
Is it possible she has a UTI? The kind of delirium you’re describing sounds like a UTI. That’s also a pretty common occurrence after an injury, especially if she was hospitalized. I think you should check with her regular doctor, and if she isn’t seeing a gerontologist, consider asking for a referral. They will have more experience with what’s “normal “ for dementia patients, whereas a general doctor may attribute everything to the dementia.
Have you tried redirecting?
Did she go to skilled nursing after her accident and surgery?
Seems the Hospitalist would have ordered that. Medicare A pays 100% for 20days
And remember some medications can cause drowsiness / dizziness which puts her in a higher fall risk category- last thing you want. The doctor should think of that anyway. UTI check is definitely worth ruling out and I agree with another poster about pain being masked won’t help her understand she is hurt. I’m sure the doctor will have an alternative plan.

she could consider a walker after her doctor is able to balance her out and she can be alittle more reasonable- well as reasonable as someone with dementia can be
She's on a relaxer but i wonder if she might need something to just quiet her down a lot more.
If she’s pain free she might not realize her hip can’t support her…
You know that's a good idea. She might not know that she's in pain if that makes any sense. So she's just completely out of control mentally because because of the severe pain. I mean she literally was bullying her way into making dinner, freaking out over all sorts of things because she's so bored just sitting there and we keep telling her she's hurt and do not move and she won't accept it. She's gonna fall. we're gonna turn our heads real quick to do something else, she's gonna get up and go and end up face first on the floor, it's almost inevitable. If we belt her in she'll probably just get up with the belt on and fall with the chair on top of herself. She's almost acting the way she did  when she was in her forties and fifties. Just being a wild beast and yelling at the slightest thing and just going and going with it. 'Beating a dead horse' in the dictionary would have her picture next to the definition.
He's heading to the doc now for a surgical check up so I'll ask him to see if they can test for a UTI.
Yes. Check all infections.
Its beyond that. She's just a mess. Like right now she thinks there's 2 of me and one left without saying goodbye. And she will not accept our answers.
Oh yeah, she was there for 11 days. But my dad didn't want to leave her there any longer because medicare only pays for I think 20 days period. between me and the floor he should have just left her there and fought with medicare. The problem is if they deem her ready to go home and he appeals, they will review the case and if she was fine to go back when they originally stated he would be on the hook for all those extra days.
There are a lot of medications available for people with dementia.  Not sure what a "relaxer" is, but get in touch with her doctor and I am sure something can be prescribed to calm her symptoms.
For this reason you need to combine medication. Medication for pain and medication to calm down her anxiety , but first you need to deal with the problem that causing  her anxiety. Dementia does not have easy solution. But we can learn how to manage it. Its constant work in progress for family
People with dementia can not communicate as we do. They can not describe pain. Change in behaviour is the way of  communication  for them. However, it can be a lot of reasons for behavior. Pain is the major one . Also check if she has any infection(such as urinary track infection or infection of the surgery site) if she does,  she needs antibiotic treatment.  Again you need to ask your doctor. Giving her medication to  settled her down will not help her if she has pain or infection. Its like giving Tylenol to someone who has heart attack
She’s delirious
That’s one of my Dad’s persistent delusions — that there are (at least) two of me. We joke about it even. I correct him and it always comes back. I haven’t looked into it but I suspect that is a common problem.
I dont know, just something to calm her down. Like really calms her.
Yeah I agree. She sundowns like crazy pretty much all day now. She always keeps talking about family. But we haven't been a family at all in the way she keeps talking about it, ever.
I got her believing there's two of her and my dads a wandering painter who moves in with the the neighbors randomly.  She's better today but all it takes is just one event to set her off.
Yeah it’s doctor time
It's kind of amusing ... until it isn't -- there is no point discussing it with my Dad because he will rationalize it in some way and explain. But, ultimately, it doesn't really matter as that perception will always return. It's odd and indicative of his overall mental state. There are various times when he'll also think I have a son or daughter or reference "My Dad" without realizing that ... that's him! ;-)
Yeah i hear you. Its fun until its not.
