No suggestions, but here's my experience with them. My dad developed endocarditis from a staff infection, requiring iv antibiotics every four hours for six weeks. He spent the first two weeks in the hospital and then because someone wouldn't be able to give the antibiotics every four hours he had to go to a facility. When the staff was looking for a place, they told me LTAC would be best but we had to wait and see if insurance approved it. So, I started asking questions about it and was told if he had regular Medicare, there would be no problem whatsoever, but because he had the advantage plan, they had to get approval. He wound up having to go to rehab facility because it wasn't approved at LTAC. But I also know many doctors no longer take regular Medicare anymore.
Don't know if your family memeber is already on an advantage plan or not.  Here is what I have recently learned:  stay away from Advantage plans.  Doctors don't like them, you are restricted to coverage for the state you live in so if you travel out of state you have no coverage, they can change coverage at any time.  If currently on Advantage plan and want to switch to a medicare supplemental (Medigap) they can deny coverage for pre-existing conditions. I am trying to get husband on Medigap, he has LBD, but have been told likely will be denied based on having dementia.  Medigap has better coverage overall, you might pay more for the premium but worth the benefits.  Don't know of anything specific to Florida.
Thanks. Advantage plans take awhile to even process the referral.  Medigap's have tricky sub clauses.
Thanks for confirming. We want to get her on a plan that will cover some of the facilities. We are finding that Medicaid is the better route but can't even go there until practically all her assets are liquidated.
Yes, Medicaid does that five year look back where every penny spent has to be accounted for. If they see she has given away or gifted money that is counted against her. If she has a home money can be spent on the home for improvements and that is allowed when trying to qualify for Medicaid.  So, if she has to spend down and has a house then do some remodeling.  That way you are increasing value of the house while also doing the necessary spend down to get her onto Medicaid.  Also, remember that once she has passed Medicare has a right to go after her estate for reimbursement of what they paid.  If you haven't seen an elder attorney do so, they can explain how to protect her estate.
