She has not really lost interest in the things she used to enjoy doing, she just can't do them anymore.  The only thing my husband has left is listening to music, reading and being on the computer.  He can't drive, cook, work power tools, can't figure out how to put together anything, really difficult for him to do basic tasks.  He also has a difficult time maintaining a conversation because he forgets what he wants to say. You just have to try different things, sometimes having them fold clothes, or sort things are enjoyable for them. Their brain is dying so the concept of wanting her to "genuinely" want to do things is past. This is a difficult disease, watching their world get smaller and smaller is so hard. Sending her short letters and cards is a loving thing to do. Keep doing that and allow that this disease causes many behaviors which are upsetting to us.
My mother in law is also in the stage where she seems like she could do things, but she really can’t. To do them at all you have to sit with her and basically tell her what to do every step of the way. It’s very sad and frustrating. She was doing good watering the plants outside for a while as her little chore, but then she started getting mosquito bites and just stopped because she couldn’t remember to put bug spray on.
Its nice of you to be so patient.  I’m watching my mom struggle to even tolerate being around my dad who is mid-stage.   She puts him in front of the TV but feels too overwhelmed with caring for all of his other needs to be able to focus on stimulating him.  Both early 70s and my heart breaks for both of them.   She wakes up shaking every morning, basically in a panic about his situation, and trying to coordinate money and care and insurance etc etc.   

Did you ever feel that overwhelmed and if so how did you overcome it?
I am not at the stage where I need help with my husband.  When he first showed signs something was not quite right, before diagnosis, we met with elder attorney to get all of the legal stuff done so I can make all of the medical and financial decisions.

Don't know how far along your Father is but has your Mom called for a hospice evaluation?  Hospice is not just for end of life care. If they accept him then a great deal of the burden will be taken off your Mom.  If they don't accept them they might have ideas of other resources that can help your Mom. The demands put on a caregiver are so difficult to manage especially if there is no one  helping.  I can understand her not having anything in reserve to provide stimulating activities for your Dad. Perhaps if hospice can't help it might be time to place him in a care home?
She’s been trying to find resources to come in and help and just recently found an organization that can come sit with him for a few hours if she needs to run errands, so hopefully that will help.   Also looking at care facilities but they are $70-90k per year, so i think she’s going to put that off for as long as possible.  Thanks for the advice and input, it sounds like you have solid emotional and mental strength
Good she is finding some resources to help her.  I am not solid emotionally nor do I have mental strength. I am just putting one foot in front of the other until I hit a wall.
