This behavior is not uncommon. Its important to remember that you are dealing with a disease and not so much Grandma, Oma, or Nana anymore.  This is only going to get worse.

My suggestion is to find a support group in your area; a real one not an online thing.  There are strategies and resources out there.  [ ](https://www.alz.org)https://www.alz.org/help-support/community/support-groups
I'm so sorry, it sounds so hard. I have no words of advice I wish I did.  Have you tried to find a dementia support group in your area? Just a thought. I wish you well.
my mom has a notebook she scribbled in each day and it seems to help at times to keep basic things straight. it does seem to help her pass the time too since she doesn’t have any real hobbies or interests in puzzles. 

thankfully i was able to find a few tv shows she liked from the past and in turn i’ve put them on my plex media server. The Waltons and Litttle House on the Prairie are her two faves along with M.A.S.H.  

much love sent your way, it’s a tough journey and we can only do the best that we can.
I relate to the only child of an only child. Not sure this will help, but with my Nona who had dementia: My mom died about 4 months after we had moved my Nona into a dementia home 20 years ago. We went and I told Nona that mom (her daughter) had died, honestly it was one of the worst moments of my life (hers as well), the sobbing and grief was HUGE. I went home a few days later and the following week was checking in with my dad and when I asked how Nona was, he said, 'she had a bad day, she forgot your mom died and when they told her it was like she was finding out for the first time again.' I immediately called the home and spoke with the head nurse who was great. We talked it through, and I said never to tell her again, if she asked when Phyllis was coming, they should just respond with 'she said she's coming later, or after work', or anything besides, she had died. I didn't want her to have to relive that news repeatedly, emotionally it was too difficult.

We also laminated a copy of my mom's obit which had a picture of my mom that Nona loved. She carried a purse around the home and that was one of the items in it. Not sure if she understood it was an obit, but she would take it out and stare at the picture and I guess read the words, but it didn't set off a grief reaction.

I think their all so different but just finding a way to tell a white lie that keeps her out of the grief space. A lie like "Oh. he's at work, he's on a work trip.' Because they are more likely to remember events from long ago past, your grandfather probably was at work and away daily and it might be enough to set her mind at ease instead of the more recent illness which is painful for her. I'm struggling to make this easy to understand, basically a white lie that fits her narrative of her life with your grandfather that keeps her from experiencing the recent painful memory repeatedly. This is all so fricking hard and painful for everyone involved. All the best.
I appreciate what you've said. I've learned that telling partial truths, or even "small lies" as you put it, often do less damage than the full truth. For example, when she can't remember where she was when he passed away, we just tell her "well, you always sleep next to him" or "the whole family was here together" instead of telling her that I was watching TV with her in the other end of the home to leave the rest of the family and hospice nurse to properly say goodbye.

So I totally get what you're saying. We also have framed a copy of the obituary keep it where she can easily find it, but won't have to stare at it. We've also got her an Echo Show so we can "drop-in" and say hello via video chat, and a wyze cam so we can keep up with during the times we just can't be down there.

The memory journal is HUGE. I honestly believe it makes a difference in accepting, and as much as she's able, retaining what's happened when she can read it in her own writing.

But she still gets stuck in circles, reading the same 3 lines over and over, and I can tell she's having to hear that her husband died for the first time, each time. Even during the funeral service, I was seated next to her, holding her hand (thank you COVID vaccine!) and at one point about 10 minutes in, looked at me in surprise and said "well, kid, when did you get here?"

I wonder how much farther her memory can go before it just isn't feasible to keep her at home.
I'm so sorry. How painful. That is so sad for her. This is all so hard. This disease is evil.
