My mother "made up" stories and hallucinated people that were not there. I put that in quotes because I believe some of the stories are twists on something in the news and others are recollections of old stories from the past with some reality; all of it filtered through a changing demented brain.

Progressions and timelines differ depending on the patient, so there is no set timeline. My mom's decline was rapid, especially after a hospital stay and placement in a Memory Care facility. She has been in the facility since August 2020 and has declined physically (she is now in a wheelchair most of the time) and mentally. Her delusions became violent at the hospital, so she is on medications to keep her on track for dementia and additional psychosis, which probably makes the decline seem a bit more steep.

Regarding the decline, I am of the belief she was always trying to keep up appearances and hold it together, but now can just "be" without that nonsense layer. She can settle into dementia instead of fighting tooth and nail. For the best, I believe.
Please take her to a neurologist. 

While we may be able to verify that it sounds like it *could* be dementia, we don't know what other factors are at play.  Even if we could say for sure, every dementia journey is different and no one can tell you exactly what to expect and when. Additionally, there are drugs out there that can slow the progression of the disease.
My mother has vascular dementia. Pre diagnosis she had a story that she told me about her doctor's wife and kids. It was so believable. After getting to know the doctor I was told no, that story was 100% untrue. She is now in a nursing home and her mental status comes and goes. She thinks her mother is still alive and visits her. She also thinks a stuffed toy cat is real. It's very hard to see her like this but I try not to compare how she was to now. It just is what it is.
Sounds similar to my grandma, who has dementia.  Her first sign that I noticed was auditory hallucinations, then visual hallucinations and she was "filling in the blanks" with her own versions of reality a lot.

She had elaborate stories about her neighbors that were untrue.  She told me one neighbor lady was a "German war-bride" and I'm like, "She wasn't even alive during WWII".

I'd get off the phone with her, she'd call back in a panic 5 minutes later telling me about this complex series of events that "just happened" to her.  I'd tell her, "that's impossible, you were on the phone with me during that time", but she was insistent.

Sometimes I'd ask her if there was a chance she dreamed up the situation, and she told me she was having a hard time discerning her dreams from reality.  

To her it was very real, even if I pointed out how impossible her stories were.
This sounds like dementia only because I have known a few people with different types. However, you should make sure she gets checked to find out what type of dementia it is. Sometimes, it can be something as small as an internal infection that causes issues and hallucinations, or it could be one of a few types of dementia. And some types will make her cognition deteriorate faster.

Good luck. You will need to have a sense of humor about it.
Thank you all for your answers!
This does sound like my grandma, who had dementia. She was always an exaggerator but with dementia, it was out of control. She had stories that were completely made up but of course made her sound important, and she integrated stuff she saw on TV into her life. 

One time she saw some random show about escaped inmates. Four hours later, she was telling a story that her next-door neighbor was actually an escaped inmate, complete with details of his crime and conversations they've had. 

Take her to a neurologist. There are some medications that slow dementia down or sometimes there are other factors at play. It's not something to wait and see about.
Check for a UTI as well. It can cause symptoms that mimic dementia.
 Yes it is…my grandma does this exact thing. She has several versions of how she met my grandad…it’s the craziest thing.
I'm honestly not sure whether this is "dementia" or... sloppy remembering.

But if it is dementia, I don't think it helps much to defy her, to deny that what she says is true. If it is dementia, she thinks it IS true, and will only get upset if you correct her.
I think it could be. I see this kind of thing in my loved one with dementia and the people I have known with it before. Perhaps it started as this exaggeration/lying habit (which happens with people without dementia) and is just increasing because she’s losing the ability to do it even a little logically. Or she may genuinely be convinced that this has happened, may be mixing up memories, etc. Either way I hope you can get her to see a neurologist.
If you're looking for an actual diagnosis, I would suggest that you start with your Grandma's primary care physician and then maybe they will refer her to a neurologist if further testing is necessary or desired.  Like others have mentioned, arguing or telling Grandma that what she truly believes to be true is not true won't really do anyone any good.  You can find more information to help friends and family members by looking at Teepa Snow's organization, Positive Approach to Care. [www.teepasnow.com](https://www.teepasnow.com) or find her on Tik Tok, Facebook, Instagram or LinkedIn.
Yep. Same thing with my mom - she had early symptoms of dementia, but "held it together" until my sister's passing in 2003. By 2004, the subterfuge just wasn't working too well - what really tore it (both literally and figuratively) was a dissection of her aortic arch. She was on bypass just a bit too long, and received an anoxic brain injury on top of the dementia. Month of rehab later...board & care for 3 years. And then, the strokes started. She ended up passing on Thanksgiving Eve 2008.

To the OP - again, in my mom's case, in a couple of instances we found cases where 2 memories appeared to be "superimposed" on one another. For example, she swore up and down that one of her relatives was a child of incestuous rape. We did some digging, and found that she was taking 2 incidents approximately 2 decades apart, and associating them with one another. Nope, didn't happen.

One of the few nice things about her dementia was that as the disease progressed, I found it was like peeling layers off of an onion - different aspects of her personality became "visible" without the stoicism masking them. So...good and bad, as with most things.
Yes I agree…if “the powers that be” in my family had taken my grandma to a neurologist she would be much better today
It is so difficult to comprehend dementia, how it works or what it feels like to the person experiencing it. My 90+ grandmother recently spent a couple of weeks in a nursing home so we could prepare her home better for her and came back telling us that she'd married the chef at the nursing home and had a baby with him! She was convinced she'd had this baby and had left the baby there with the chef at the nursing home, and was bemoaning how bad it was for her baby to be around so many elderly people!! It's just bizarre. 

It is hard to see them that way, especially remembering how they used to be, but in one way I feel better that she is now happy in her delusions instead of being so paranoid and angry and frightened like she was before. As you say, it is what it is, and you just have to take comfort from the small things, like when they are subjectively feeling ok because they think they have a nice new husband and a new baby, or they have a nice cat friend and have visited with old friends/parents etc.
Oh as far as how fast it progresses...for my grandma it's been VERY SLOW.  Everyone is different, but in her case she had the hallucinations off and on for at least 7 years now.  They'd come and go...now they are full time....it took several years to get her the care she needed because it was so gradual and she didn't see a problem
Yeah exactly, every story is about how important she is, that everybody knows her and she knows everybody.
Several years ago she spoke to some priest about something important to her. I know who he is, his name and everything. Today she saw some kind of high ranking bishop give an interview on TV and she was like, do you remember I met him in 2016 and spoke about *the topic* and I was like, no grandma, it wasn't him but it was *father John Doe*. I don't know whether I should correct her and logically explain, or not.
If it's dementia, then explaining will only enrage her and feed into paranoia. You have to live in her world. If she said she met him, then she did - it's true to her, at least for the moment. 

It's hard and confusing to go along with the delusions, but it's better for the loved one.
