It sucks.  It's sad but true that there's almost nothing we can do to make them happy.  All we can do is keep them safe.  It's no one's fault and there's no reason to feel guilty (even though you will, we all do).  I've literally sat and thought; "If money were no object and our feelings didn't matter what could we do to make her happy?" and came up with nothing.  Other than time travel back to when they were mentally whole, we're helpless.
You will always have some guilt no matter what. I had to place my dad in memory care and due to logistics and situation, my mom has to be in a different one an hour away.  After 64 years together they are now separated.  It horrible for all of us and nothing can be done.  We continually repeat that we know he is safe now and his needs are being met. Not the “perfect beautiful place” we’d have wanted but there were no openings or they were all self pay for extended times.  We visit as much as we can and just keep deflecting the wanting to go home.  Dad can’t have a phone or we’d get the angry calls.   You’ll find the best time to call ( for us it’s 30 minutes before or after eating).  Many times they don’t get to phone due to being short handed.  I found a local elder age social company that I paid that would come in and check on dad once in a while and be his advocate when I couldn’t. It was well worth the money until this home became his new safety bubble. They’d tell him they’d talk to home about getting him ‘heard and moved out’. That’s all he needed to hear , that someone was on his side.   There are good days and bad and we have to just accept that we’re going to cry over this daily. No win situation but appreciate the calm times you have.  Any infection will make them 10 times worse immediately so getting that cleared up will help.   Prayers to stay strong as it doesnt get easier for most of us. I have to cousins trying to take care of their parents at home and they are completely miserable and barely managing….  I’m working fulltime and handling and my parents have to be in nursing homes and I’m also miserable and barely managing.  It is what it is.  I can’t physically, emotionally or financially take care of my parents at my home.  Just remember we have to take time to unwind or we will have a room right next to them.
I don't think it is ever easy when you have to place someone you love.  As care givers sometimes you just don't have a way to keep them safe from their own behaviors. This disease takes over and sometimes there is no way to combat the way it ravages our loved ones.  I assume her doctor would be trying to add medication or adjust what she is taking now to help with the depression and delusions. It is so hard when they want to come home or blame you for locking them up, but it is being done for the right reasons and you just have to hang on to that.  When my MIL was in a home she never answered the phone, cell or land line, and there was nothing we could do.  Either her cell wasn't charged or the phone wasn't within easy reach. Is anyone in the family able to get in to see her?  If it's a good facility then you know she is being cared for. Her response to all of this is out of your hands, you all just have to remember you are doing the best you can for her. Good luck,
My family and I have come to the same conclusion which has been hard to swallow. She wasn’t happy at home, she wasn’t happy in the hospital, she’s not happy in the facility and she wouldn’t be happy anywhere. I’m thankful that they do have the money to keep her in this facility where it’s a home like environment that looks like it could’ve been decorated by herself and her best friend. I hate seeing her so unhappy and being unable to try to comfort her and not knowing if anyone is trying to. I hate this disease
It is so much more than memory loss. I am struck by the loss of cognition. My husband has a graduate degree and doesn’t know what what melanoma is, nor CPAP, he can’t find his underwear and it doesn’t occur to him to open the chest drawers to look for them.
