If you can have them do a medical POA and a financial POA before its needed its a lot easier.  Also see if they can add you as POD or TOD on any existing accounts or investments.  Find out if they have life insurance and have the policy number.   You might also see if you can be added onto the house title as Joint tenant with right of survivorship.  And find out their end of life wishes.  Do they want a DNR?  Not sure if I can put a link here but this has some other items...  

https://seniorsafetyadvice.com/legal-checklist-for-aging-parents/
And see if this helps:  https://docs.google.com/document/d/16Zyn2NwD59JWGgzFOSNkiOuqgpatjWBZ/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=104722149760644803185&rtpof=true&sd=true  

A will means probate, which is time-consuming and expensive.  They need a trust, with them as trustee and you (or whomever) as primary successor trustee.
It is crucial to do advance powers of attorney.  By the time a parent has dementia, it is too late to sign one.  Furthermore, it may take some time to persuade parents that it's a just-in-case rather than your trying to take them over.  You explicitly want a "durable power of attorney", which is one that lasts indefinitely.   

One approach, if it fits your situation, is to say "I've gotten powers of attorney so that if I get sick unexpectedly [person] will be able to pay my bills, make medical decisions, and so on.   They can't do anything while I'm healthy, it's a just in case."  Like, make it a thing you do yourself, not a thing that is done to them.

We're dealing with our mother's dementia right now, and one thing my brother told me this morning:  File the powers of attorney with all your financial people -- that means your insurance company, any pensions you hold, your bank, your retirement accounts -- while you are still competent to make decisions.   Some businesses we're dealing with won't accept a properly signed and sealed power of attorney for a variety of reasons including bureaucratic stupidity, and if you tell them while you are still the decision maker that "Here's the power of attorney, observe it" it may cut through some hoops.

Like, literally, one state pension agency told my brother that they couldn't accept the power of attorney unless my mother was on the line and told them her name, and then they asked her her date of birth and street address?!?!  Which she couldn't remember.
