Here's what's critical whether you are there or not: ALL the blame and responsibility for this needs to be on the doctor (in your Mom's mind) and you need to appear powerless and her ally. If the doctor wants you there so he won't have to be the only bad guy or to use you as part of the decision, then do not go and do not allow that. You are the one she's going to be calling and yelling at every day from assisted living, not him. Let him take ALL the blame. He should understand this and go along with it if he knows anything about dementia.

Ideally, it's best to fib a bit or side step the truth by the doctor saying something like "You're not strong enough to go home yet so you need to go to this place to keep recovering" with the (false) insinuation that it's not permanent. She'll still be furious but that is usually a lot easier to swallow. Then, when she's angry or demands to go home, use delay tactics by telling her she needs to get stronger before the doctor will approve it. If there are times when you need to lie more overtly to appease her (such as saying you will talk to the doctor about seeing if she's ready to go home) then do it. Keep repeating this method and eventually she will stop asking but you may have a real unpleasant time before then. You may even need to screen her calls if she starts calling you incessantly demanding to go home.  GOOD LUCK.
Is it an assisted living facility where the folks are allowed to come and go as they please, lots of activities, chef-prepared meals, happy hours, etc-as opposed to memory care where she will be on lockdown?  If so, I would be thrilled if someone sent me there. I met some folks living in the assisted living facility next door to my grandma’s memory care and they loved it!  

Either way, I would refer to it as “your apartment” and not drive home the fact that it’s involuntary. Just act like it’s a good plan that’s already been discussed and agreed upon, as if you’ve gotten her buy-in. Many times (in my experience) they will follow your lead, and if you act as if this is a positive move, she may feel more comfortable going. 

I tried reasoning with my grandma in the earlier phases, but it wasn’t possible because her ability to reason was one of the first things to go. Instead I learned to make decisions for her and never sit down to share all the details because that was inviting an argument. Just act like it’s the best move for her, which it is.
Protect yourself, stay away from the doctor's appointment so when you see her at the facility you can blame him.  Only way to go, fib a little, tell her doctor told you to meet her at the new facility then go on and on about how nice it is, bring some things from her home and just try and ignore any upset she may have.  Good luck.
