[Telecalm](https://www.telecalmprotects.com/)

Another redditor used it and said it works.

It apparently detects too many outgoing calls and gives a gentle message that that person is not available.

**For you**: Old people swear they're not going to assisted living and make everybody promise they won't do that.

Old person gets dementia and is unable to care for themselves or have awareness of their own inability to care for themselves.

Your Grandma made her decision. Fine, that's her decision.

Your mother made her decision; fine, that's *her* decision.

You were not consulted.  It is not your problem. Block your grandmother's calls. Yes, you love her, but you have to live your best life.  When your mother rages, say, "You made your decision.  It falls on you."
She does sound bored and lonely. Also, sometimes people with dementia are not aware of how often they are calling. Can you get her interested in some classes or activities at a local senior center? Some are geared towards high functioning seniors like her and they might not be a turn off to her. Exercise, dancing, field trips, gardening, and lots of socializing etc etc are offered at the center near me. I would probably leave "senior" out of it when presenting the idea to her. You could even say they are looking for active volunteers to join the program as a mentor for others. She could feel purposeful by going in addition to hopefully enjoying herself. Adult daycare for high functioning/mild dementia people might be another option now or in the future. Regarding the calls, if she doesn't panic when the rest of you don't answer, I would just answer a reasonable amount of times per day at a time that's convenient (such as once or twice before or after work). Maybe you could coordinate with the rest of the family so your phone calls are spread throughout the day. It may not work due to her memory issues, but your Mom could try a set schedule of calling her Mom, including in the AM and then end the call with "I'm going to appointments now and have to turn my phone off. I will call you again at 3pm."  If possible, your Mom could also put a voicemail message on her phone giving an explanation of why she's not answering - somethng that would reassure your grandmother.
There’s no easy answer, other than to be kind when she calls. I remember complaining about this to my mother when my grandmother was calling a lot. Her response was “it may not be easy but one day you’ll miss her calls”. She’s been gone a couple years and I would do anything to get a call from her now.
Try getting her a care worker/companion.  Also check with senior centers, many have adult "day care" or other activities she could do.  She probably doesn't know she is calling so frequently, getting her involved would likely help.
THIS. TeleCalm has absolutely allowed my mother’s friends and family to breathe a sigh of relief. Also, their customer service is really good.
TeleCalm doesn't work on a cell phone.
can you briefly describe how the service work please?
I've never heard of this service. Thank you.
