The biggest problem isn't the device design; it's that people with dementia don't learn new things very well, or sometimes at all. It would be best if they started using a dispenser earlier in life so they are in the habit. Physical memory keeps working longer than cognitive memory, so that would be a help.
Tech innovations are useless for persons with dementia. Sorry, I don’t mean to be blunt, but it is true. At best a am/pm pill box with maybe a written calendar to check of a to-do such as “take meds”, would be the most successful. 

Think regression - think of where the person was at in their life at say age 8 (let’s say approximately 1948) and what was available for everyday home tech. A radio, a TV, and a home landline is probably the extent of their technological memories. For some odd reason my mom tends to end up looking for things she owned in the late 1960’s.

I’m lucky that in her mid-80’s my mom can still manage answering her cell phone, but texting is challenging and her iPad is only useful for her because at best she can turn it on and play paint by number games. Email is getting close to being a lost function. I anticipate getting her a landline, possibly a rotary phone in the next few years.

I created a 4-step picture instruction on how to turn on the music on her laptop (app set to auto open upon opening the laptop, so open laptop, locate right arrow, hover mouse, click right arrow to play) but she can’t figure it out despite walking her through it over a dozen times, probably because a right play arrow didn’t exist on radios.
I've used two. A round mechanical dispenser, which my mother had difficulty with as it was too heavy for her to turn-over. So she bashed it until it died. 

Then I got her a pria, and that just isn't user friendly enough. Instead of automatically dispensing pills without input, it requires interaction from her, and she couldn't remember to verbally tell it to dispense, or push the code to dispense.
We never got there as far as tech goes, so our method was using me to deliver his meds on time. Drawbacks were keeping him on a schedule when he never slept or was awake on a consistent schedule. We ended up rearranging some meds so nothing was twice a day to avoid some worry about the timing. 

Secondarily, when he was his most ornery it was difficult to motivate myself to go in there, even though of course I did. 

We also kept controlled substances in a lockbox - both to protect him but also I sleepwalk so the risk of taking something was increased.
