Oh, man, what a mess.

Get a TV. Doesn't matter if he doesn't like it. Get a TV and put it on something from the days he still remembers. If you can't do a TV, get a radio, record player, CD player, stereo system, something that plays music, and find the stuff he liked in his teens and 20s. Make a playlist of the upbeat stuff at least a couple of hours long, and play it on a loop. If he can still read, get him the kind of puzzle books he might enjoy - crossword, word search, sudoku.

Is there a pet in the house? Any animal he can interact with?

He's got to have enrichment. If he's bored, he's going to wander to where there's action.
Oh, Gawd! My mom used to do this before we realized what was happening. I'd come home from work and need to turn into a whirlwind of activity to get my kids fed, showered and homework done before bed. (6:45 arrival - 8:30 bedtime went REALLY fast.)

She would just get into the middle of my kitchen "triangle" of activity as I was just trying to get a pizza in the oven or something and I would get so annoyed. She would try getting food out to defrost so she could cook and I would get frustrated because there was no time for that at that point.

I really just wanted her to go sit down and let me bang it out, but in her attempts to help, she made it take that much longer, eating into anything resembling quality time we MIGHT have been able to enjoy once all the necessaries were completed. And she was not going to sit down unless everyone else was sitting down, so there was no directing her away from the hussle.
A computer, with [https://www.my60stv.com/](https://www.my60stv.com/) on?
I'm sorry this is happening, but wtf dude. This person didn't ask to have dementia. To call a helpless human being Mr. Demento is disgusting, regardless of what he's putting you through.
I feel this so hard. My FIL would stare and hover like crazy. Before dementia, his wife would complain about his lack of sense of personal space. I told him a few times to back off because it was so uncomfortable. I tried to be nice about it but he would still be offended. The TV helped a bit with the staring, but got less effective as his disease progressed. Sadly, not a lot could be done without upsetting him. I wish you luck.
I got my dad a 32” LCD tv on Craigslist for $30. It can be a pretty cheap experiment to try: a used TV, reconditioned DVD player off Amazon, and a box set of a tv show from when he was in his 20’s.
Computer repair is tomorrow. He has loads of music to listen to. His dog died a few years ago. He doesn't read anymore except on the internet, stuff like How To Cure Dementia With Exercise. Numbers don't mean much. I'm sure he can't learn to operate anything new.

I agree he should have a TV that he can operate with 1 simple remote. Anyone know how to manage that?
So, on the computer, go to that link? And it does what?
He's not a nice person. Wasn't nice before dementia.
Thank you. Yes he's always done it, such an odd behavior. And now it's closer still, and just bizarre and creepy.
Can you set up a TV similar to one he had in the past? Maybe even go with a CRT TV?
I get it. My FIL was a jerk a lot of the time -was emotionally abusive to his family. But you're mocking a dying person. If you don't like being around him, I encourage you to get him into long term care.
We'll think about that. He's been a movie buff and he's not using his Netflix account because he can't understand it anymore. He was watching news on YouTube but stopped, I think because he doesn't understand it anymore. 

Maybe 8 channels would be good. Baseball, old movies...
I'm not around him. I'm facilitating everything - caregivers, medical appointments, lawyer, searching for care arrangements, paying his bills, supporting his daughter who is the one who sees him most, you name it - and that's a clue about my fundamental decency as a person. If I want to manage my frustrations by using a goofy name, I'm allowed, so far as I know. I wish him no ill will, and he's not reading this, so won't be hurt by it.
Dude you really can’t have a valid opinion when you know absolutely nothing about how the dynamics of this relationship have progressed over the years. Shush.
We pit up an antenna on the house for my mother-in-law 's TV since she doesn't really understand how to stream stuff and it's great. It's like tv in the old days and she can watch stuff like old westerns and old sitcoms.
I love your shush and respect your comment. I'm just not a fan of name-calling.
