In my opinion, and just from what I've experienced, getting the "official diagnosis" really helps when trying to arrange things like home health care, hospice, or anything with their health insurance. It was required for us to get elder care waivers in order to get in-home assistance.

I am so sorry you're going through this. It's awful.
Yes, because some meds that are ok for people w Alzheimer's are definitely not ok for people with frontotemporal dementia. It matters
A diagnosis can also aid in obtaining help from the county, especially regarding eligibility for programs and services. It sounds like it has become hard to be the sole caregiver for this elder, and there are some medications that can help with confusion/disorientation even if they do not cure the disease. Additionally, some of the services the county can offer could include in-home caregivers. Lastly, if the individual is opposed to seeing a doctor or you feel the doctor has been unhelpful, there remains the option to call APS (adult protective services, which can be done anonymously!). APS can offer a county social worker to help work through the options available to the elder. Overall, a diagnosis can help you to better research what to expect from and for your loved one as far as gauging speed of progression and understanding the stages/loss of abilities over time.
I sympathize with you and am sorry you are going through this experience.

I was somewhat in this situation, trying to get someone, some doctor or neurologist provide an "official diagnosis".  It stressed me out completely; there were days I was very upset that these people would not come to a diagnosis.

I have no clue what I was expecting from a diagnosis.  

Would it in some way identify a treatment ?  

Were there pills that fit the form of dementia ?  

Would we be able to, with doctor's help, change things ?  

Would it make my mom feel better ?  

Would it make me feel better ?

The answer to all was and continues to be, NO! 

If for no other reason the diagnosis is a "peace of mind" option for you, then I say continue to push for it.  

I don't intend to be on the negative side of this, but I've found nothing that a diagnosis at this stage provides.
^^^^this
I needed a formal written diagnosis to move my dad to assisted living.
This.
