Yeah, the stress and irregular sleep schedule of being a caregiver to a dementia patient really takes a toll on your short term memory. But it doesn’t mean you have it.
Dementia is not hereditary. I also sometimes wonder, when I forget things, if I have it also.  My husband has Lewy Body Dementia and I care for him.  I think the times we, care givers and relatives, forget things is more related to stress than to disease. It is so hard to watch the person we love disappear, it is so hard taking care of them every day, it is so hard knowing how much worse it will get for them.  All of this adds up to worry and depression and will have an impact on your mental health.  Maybe getting some counseling will help you through this difficult time.
I think for all of us who care for others these fears loom large.  All I can recommend is to live as healthy a lifestyle as you find humanly possible and avoid head trauma.
I am in a grey area awaiting a diagnosis for my mother. I feel like my memory is also deteriorating but I realize it is mainly from doing too much and trying to manage her meds and meals along with my own household and job. I’ve made a list when I need to deal with stuff for her and that simple act has helped me to realize my brain just can’t handle everything. The lists have made a huge difference. Of course I still worry about my own genes and what will come my way but I realize right now I am mainly overloaded mentally.
First, it can take a long time to get a definitive diagnosis, and sometimes only at autopsy. You may know it's dementia, but which type? Alzheimers? Vascular? FTD? LBD?

But it also never hurts to get help earlier rather than later, especially as there are newer treatments coming out all the time. My own father was dragging his feet about getting a dx because it scared him. But once he did, they put him on Aricept and it did help. I believe it helped slow the progression somewhat. 

Also know that getting old does make us somewhat forgetful, and that's not dementia, it's just getting old. Stress doesn't help. And I can tell you that whenever I spent a lot of time with my father and MIL, I'd walk away feeling maybe I too had dementia. But that would pass--- it's just normal I think to start questioning your own mental faculties.
Thanks for the reply. I will have to find ways to manage the stress because it is too much
> Dementia is not hereditary

Are you sure about that? Is that true for vascular dementia? Because my father and uncle both died of vascular dementia, and now my brother is showing the same early signs.
Yes you are right. I started following the Mind diet recently
Many people affected by dementia are concerned that they may inherit or pass on dementia. The majority of dementia is not inherited by children and grandchildren.  
 In rarer types of dementia there may be a strong genetic link, but   
these are only a tiny proportion of overall cases of dementia.
Thanks.

What about vascular dementia?
Except for a few rare types, vascular dementia is not hereditary. Vascular dementia is caused by damage to blood vessels in the brain, 
