I promised my mother that I would never lie to her.
That being said, I will lie through my ever loving teeth if it makes her calm down or feel better about a situation. 

If you were maliciously not telling the truth , then of course that would be wrong. 
In this situation little lies can make everyone's day smoother.
It is absolutely okay. You have to meet them where they are
I think of it as compassionate lying.  If the truth is going to cause my LO anguish or harm, it is a non starter.  I have a relative who gets furious that she doesn’t remember that other relatives have passed and we don’t remind her. We of course her know if someone passes, when it happens. That relative doesn’t have to sit with her on a daily basis and watch her grieve anew each time she is told. Another example, her car has “been in the shop” for years, and she hasn't asked about it in some time.  she moves on from "in the shop" much better than it has been sold.  If it helps her have a better day and makes care giving go smoother don't sweat it.
You're lying to the disease, not her. Your intent is what makes the difference. Lying isn't always wrong.
I lie to my loved one all day every day. I know that it feels weird and it can make you feel guilty, but for me It’s the difference between her constantly crying and thinking she’s in prison, to being able to spend time with me, or fix up her garden at the nursing home, or do anything really.
You aren't lying to her, you're lying to the disease.
It's ok. It's the compassionate and kind thing to do if it helps their personal safety and well being.
Yesterday I was visiting my mom in the hospital and it became apparent that she forgot my brother died. I lied so fast! Nobody wants to relive the day they learned of their son's death again and again.
Yes. Sometimes they can't process the truth, and if you try to make them process it, they'll just fall apart. Sometimes it's easier and kinder to lie.
therapeutic fibbing.
We have an advanced dementia patient with us and she is quite defiant. Sometime the process of getting to the bathroom and cleaning up can take hours of friendly convincing with multiple people. At some point, you realize you have to say whatever is needed to get the job done. Remember that you are trying to avoid forcing them to do anything, especially physically, so some mental trickery is necessary.
It is okay to lie.

FIL passed before MIL, who had dementia. Her memory would re-set every 6 seconds. We learned quickly when she'd ask where her husband was, to lie. It was just too cruel to see her grieve over and over again when we would tell her he'd passed and remind her she'd even been to his funeral. So we learned to answer, "he's still working at the hospital" or "he was just here visiting."
I lie to my MIL w/ severe LBD every time I see her. Because she's in the terminal agitation phase and I always say stuff like 

"We're going to take care of that later."

I guess it's not a lie. We will take care of it later. Probably long after she's passed.
Thanks these responses have made me feel much better. I sort of figured it was alright but the confirmation is comforting. :)
Thanks! I'm a home aide and Ive had a stroke patient with memory problems before but it was very different. I'm getting used to it it's been a few weeks but it's still new. She can be a different person 5 mins later and different strategies work sometimes and then fail. The lying sometimes makes her less agitated so I figured it was ok but Its foreign to me haha.
In my experience so far, changing the subject to something they like to talk about from the past works very well.. Bring up music, relatives, or cars that they like..
What helps us making a thermometer: basically code her different moods, how to recognise them, and how to handle them. If she fluctuates in lucidity she might figure out a lie here or there, and that can affect her general sense of trust in you. 

Green: happy eyes, relaxed shoulders, oriented in space, etc. Likes to puzzle
Orange: furrowed brow, looks a little lost, seems to search around the room. Asks questions like 'when are you leaving'. Can still be distracted with some tea and a joke, answers should be mostly truthful. 
Red: Angry frown, raised shoulders, pacing around. Raised voice, demands that you leave, no longer oriented in space. Will calm down once left alone, lies to placate work well. 


You get the gist. Recognising and 'treating' Orange can really help prevent patients from reaching Red. Adapt it for different behaviour/moods: pain should get its own thermometer, as do anger and fear. You can even track patterns this way, by coloring in a simple table in excel. Her unrest will probably show up around naptime like you noticed. If she starts to have these moods more often, that can signal you that her needs for rest have increased. Etc.
This also helps to formalise what you do, when to do it, and why you do it. If family has doubts or questions you can show your documents, and that you are working hard to keep her comfortable.
