I don't have a lot of advice for you but I sympathize greatly. There's a saying "you can't set yourself on fire to keep others warm." My dad set himself on fire to keep my grandma warm for 15 years. The end result was him having a heart attack and surgery. He also has caregiver PTSD, even after grandma was moved into a facility. He has guilt, stress, fear...I have some trauma and my depression cranked up to 100 during the worst days. 

Can you maybe talk to a counselor about what you're experiencing? And it sounds like mom could benefit from a counselor as well.
My dad (65) has early onset Alzheimer’s. It’s been very hard for my mom (54) and recently he has declined more and it’s been harder. My mom, sister (19) and I (27) are doing as much as we can to support eachother and we have decided to send him to long term care. It has been very emotional in the past few weeks but we are hanging in there. The care at long term care is much better than we can provide at home. You can visit anytime, bring them home for a few days anytime and you get your life back. It is hard at first but time heals. You are such an amazing person for doing so much for your parents, God sees it all and will make you a stronger person. Remember you are not alone and all these feelings you have are normal, every person going through this journey has them. I wish you all the best. Please take care of yourself.
I was talking to a social worker about the question of how do you know when it’s time to move them into a care facility (assuming financial ability), and she said three biggies where people drew the line were: the person becoming “a jerk”, wandering, and incontinence. 

In other words, not being able to deal with toileting issues is pretty normal.
I'm very grateful that my Dad has yet to experience any incontinence or issues requiring the 'personal care' that you reference. However, for me, that will signal the end of the road as primary caregiver. My Dad & I agreed years ago that I wouldn't take on this task and I've already gone above and beyond (well beyond) what we agreed upon. I'm already in the process of working to bring in professional care of some sort but any issues like that would expedite the process.

I don't think you're wrong for not wanting to take that on. It's just different when it's family and especially a parent. I see how my siblings are able to interact with my Dad -- still something of a normal relationship during short visits -- and that's what I want for myself. I've had enough of being the primary caregiver because I've lost any kind of normal relationship with my Father as a result. I'm going to try to get that back before it's too late.
"Guilt is a useless emotion. It cuts you off at the knee and gives nothing in return."

> I absolutely can't bring myself to help in this way for my own Dad

Your dad would probably be mortified if you helped him in this way. I know that was the case with my dad (RIP - died last week at 81, after 7 years with vascular dementia). Also, while he could still vocalize a preference, he wanted to have a male attendant rather than female for this sort of thing. My dad died before he made it into memory care, but we were in process of moving him there precisely because his personal care had gotten to be too much for my 80 y/o mom, who has her own health issues.

> My mum is relying on me for chats and company and offloading her stress. I also fill in forms for her for benefits and arranged the care etc

You're doing awesome! Because your mom also needs your support. Keep doing what you're doing. 

Take a deep breath. Let go of the guilt (and don't confuse it with grief). Focus on action, controlling what you can control, without burning yourself out in the process. For example, you could look into adding more at-home caregivers for round-the-clock support, or moving dad into memory care.
I’m in therapy, but even then, I’m barely coping.  I have retreated from social interactions because I’m just so depressing to be around, and I don’t want to be “that friend”.  I binge on lots of streaming services to take my mind off my troubles.

I feel guilt all the time. My dad is in a nursing home, and he wants to go home, and even worse, he thinks he’ll get better and come home. He’s also incontinent, and although the staff are great and usually clean him up promptly, sometimes they have staff meetings, or are busy with other patients, so what am I to do when I walk into his room and there is feces on the floor and on him and his clothes?  I have cleaned him myself, which I never thought that I would do, but after years of watching him decline, I find myself doing things I thought I’d never do because I’ve become numb to what used to shock me.
I do think everyone has different comfort levels of what they can take on care wise. I think of it like pain tolerance. My 4 on a pain scale may be a 10 for you. We aren't all built the same. Plus relationship dynamics can be different. 

I take care of my grandma (83) with vascular dementia. When I took over her care my son was only a few years older than finishing potty training. This meant bathing and toileting another human was pretty standard for me so taking over her hygiene was not hard. 

My mom (grandma's daughter) hadn't had to keep another human alive in like 30 years so her patience wore thin real fast while dealing with her mom. Plus she still works full time. 

At some point we know she'll go into a memory home but since she's healthy and has not declined too rapidly, we are keeping her home. She does go to a senior center/adult day care 3 days a week so she socializes. It gives me a break which is nice. Also, something they started doing and we try to do at home- every 2 hours take them to the bathroom. It can help lower the amount of accidents.
My sister snd I took care of mom during Alzheimers even the diaper care. My dad (96 right now) is still living in his home next to mine with daily provider coming in a couple of hours daily. He will be going to assisted living as soon as a fall causes him to go to hospital. He comes over in his side-by-side 6 to 8 times daily starting at 7 am. Often I get a chewing out. 

While I am glad we were able to help mom, it is not happening again. That diapering your parent was rough although it was also an act of love. 

Hang in there OP!
This is hard. Seeing your parents decline and needing help with something like diapers can be a lot to handle. Don't beat yourself up over it, we all have the same reactions and dread it all the same. Just do the best you can. Talking to your mom every now and then may be just what they need right now. Take them at their word.
If you see signs it's more than your mom can handle maybe then it's time to do something different. 
Hang on there, we're all doing the best we can with what we have. Hugs!
Thank you ❤️. Yes I've had counselling in the past, that's a good idea. I'm so sorry for you and your Dad, I get it 100%
Thank you so much ❤️. Early onset dementia must be especially harrowing, I wish you all the best.
That's really interesting. Thanks for that. 

That sounds about right and my Dad has already ticked off "becoming 'a jerk'" and there have been a couple wandering episodes. 

Hopefully, the care situation will change before we reach incontinence.
That's such a relief to hear, thank you. ♥️ I do hope he's on the path to more intensive care soon.
I suppose I assumed that everyone else was nobly doing this stuff and I was being the exception. It's such a relief to hear that's the boundary for others too. ❤️
'Controlling what you can control'. That's exactly what I needed to hear. Thanks ❤️😊
Oh I'm so sorry. That's really tough.
Scheduling frequent potty runs is a great suggestion.
It’s pretty normal for people to question whether they made the right choice, during the adjustment period after moving the person into congregate care. 

Two days after I moved my dad he told me he shit himself. I feel like I dodged a poopy bullet.
I have nobly done lots of things that my Dad would never have permitted me to do just a couple years ago. And, both he and my Mother would be horrified to find that I've been put in this position. My Mom, in particular, would convey to me "WTF are you still doing there?" (but without the profanity). So, I don't have too many feelings of guilt because I've shouldered an extreme burden for 2 years now and something has to change. My Dad could live another 5 years with ever worsening symptoms. Am I prepared to do what I've been doing (and more) for 5 more years? I'm guessing you know the answer.

**Edit:** After thinking about this a bit, I think I should add something that \*does\* makes things easier in my situation and might not apply to yours. My Dad was a fine father but was not always the nicest person even to us kids. Selfish, petty, controlling, etc. and a lot of that behavior has only increased as he's gotten older. He also could be pretty mean to my Mom with whom I had a very close relationship.

So, I feel that's a bit more context that influences my situation but that may not apply to yours. It might be making it easier for me to let go of any guilt that I might feel.
