You can't help someone who does not want help.  There is no way to force him to see his doctor, no way to force him to take medication.  It sounds like this is just the way he lives his life and he doesn't care what any family member says. Your Mom won't leave him and she is the one who is really suffering. Yes, she can relate her concerns to his doctor but since your Dad won't go to the doctor it seems that would have limited, if any, benefit.  You are searching and wishing for him to change, maybe it is time to accept that he is not going to change and find ways to accept that he is not going to change, it is not up to you or anyone else to try and make him change.  He may become so sick that he needs hospitalization and that may be a catalyst for him to wake up and get real about his behavior.  Perhaps some counseling will help you deal with the whole situation.  So difficult to be in this situation. Take care of yourself and do your best to also take care of your Mom.
I am so sorry that your family is going through this. Your mother should absolutely be able to contact his doctor. If nothing else, she can ask the doctor to put a note on his chart with regards to his symptoms, and then his doctor can do the "heavy lifting" with regards to any mini-testing and referrals to specialists.

I wish you all the best and hope that you can find the help that you need with your father.
I’m sorry you are experiencing this. Alcoholism can be a contributor to the onset of dementia. I know of a couple different people where it was diagnosed as such. I know it seems difficult, but if he is being physically abusive, it might make sense to call the police? Your mother certainly doesn’t deserve to be abused, and if he is getting drunk and hitting her he needs to be removed from the home. From there maybe it will be a wake up call for him, but if not you can start looking at getting help for him and have documentation that he is abusive to provide to a doctor who can help you with a diagnosis.
I was thinking about your situation more and I was wondering if your father is leaving the house himself or if someone is bringing alcohol to him? If he is emotionally/mentally abusive but not physically, and is still able to go out and buy himself alcohol, he’s probably with it enough to know that his abuse of your mother is not right. Either way, I would maybe suggest having your mom take a break from it, if not find a new living situation for her entirely. I know you said she refuses to leave, but maybe approaching it as a vacation away from your dad to start with might help her.
