First off you need to be setting an appointment with an elder attorney, right away, in order to get legal documents in place such as Durable Power of Attorney for health care and POA for handling her finances.  The POA's are crucial in being able to speak for her and make health decisions for her as the disease progresses. I assume she would be able to participate in any visit with an attorney in order to make her wishes known.  You would also want end of life care spelled out.  The attorney would also let her know what other things should be done and included in her will. You can easily tell her that it is just time to get these things done.  I am not sure there is a reason to tell her about her diagnosis as she will most likely forget what you have said so what would be the benefit.
No need to tell her...It won't help one way or another.
I’m gonna say don’t tell her. Stress just makes it worse in most people. Go with “it’s time we get these things sorted,”.  And let her know it’s for your peace of mind.
Everybody here is spot on. 

The elder care lawyer is an immediate must to get you access to continuing her life as she knows it. Get on top of bills right away. When my mother had a stroke which was what kinda kicked her dementia into high gear, I was lost, took 3 months to get DPOA and took me a full couple of days to just figure out the mess she was in and to get everyone paid. BTW, you should be able to get a lawyer to come to you, they'll charge you, but trust me, it is worth every penny to get a start on handling her finances. I would also suggest you create an email account for only her, took me a year to figure that one out, hers were all mixed in with my email and became confusing to keep track of.

Don't tell her. My mother now has a short term memory of about 5 minutes, occasionally longer, but no more than maybe 15 minutes. I was telling her honestly what was going on, but she would get mad and distrustful until she forgot. I learned to "lie" to someone with dementia, is actually a kindness, just go with what they say to keep the conversation light and their emotional state calm.

Hope this helps.
I'm going to buck the trend here and say you should tell her, while she still has the capacity to understand.

As you mentioned there's lots of planning to do and she can only make informed decisions if she has the basic facts about her health. Her views on life-sustaining treatments, CPR if she has a heart attack for instance, may be different is she knows she has dementia. There's other seemingly smaller preferences for care that she might have that would give her dignity and peace of mind.

She might still have things she wants to do, messages she wants to pass on, spiritual needs she wants to meet. She should have the chance to do these before dementia robs her of the ability.

Mainly I think that people have the right to know about their own health, whether that's terminal cancer, dementia or anything else.

I know there's valid arguments on the other side and it's not a straight-forward decision. 

If you do decide to tell her it may be better to involve a professional. Maybe whoever made the diagnosis, her own GP or a specialist nurse could be involved. Some hospices or palliative care centres will have community staff that are skilled in having conversations most of us hope to avoid. 

However she is told she will need time to consider it, the chance to ask questions, and lots of support from loved ones. I wish you and her well.
I lost my Mother and Father a month apart in 2020 to Alz/Dem. (Both passed in their sleep.) They were never told, and I believe that they were better off not knowing. That had each other, so their situation may differ. My heart goes out to you and your family. Much Love. ♥️
I agree with most of these comments. I'd pick a time you think she might be most receptive (expect this won't be your timetable) and try to have the conversation. But understand this is for YOUR peace of mind. Chances she'll remember the conversation are low. 

I understand why you want her to be a part of the decisions and that's very kind on your part. But it may not be possible. 
Your love for her is obvious in your post.
Agree with all this. My mom knows she has Alzheimers - but it just makes her depressed when she remembers. Most of the time she doesn't remember, and doesn't understand why things need to happen. 

Sorry you're going through this.
I agree with these comments, and getting financial power if atty and health care directive are imperative. 
As for dementia, just roll with where her mind takes her. I know it is hard to hear them spout nonsense, but real or not, it is real in their mind. You will only drive yourself crazy and piss her off if you try to tell her something she just said isn’t real, or if you try to get her to remember a recent event. It is very hard to be the caregiver, and it’s going to get worse. 
I find some of the things they say amusing, and pull on the thread to see how far the dream/delusion had gone. Sometimes I get interesting stories from my mom as a little girl and her relationship with my ancestors. Best wishes to you in this journey.
