I exercise and try to eat healthily. No alcohol or drugs except all the pain killers I have to take for headaches. I believe in the power of video games for brain health and I play pretty regularly. I also believe in learning new things, so I am learning the piano. 

I read and write and sometimes practice my second language, but I can feel my memory going. My mother and grandmother were both early onset, so I have about ten years left. It's scary. I know that "genetics loads the gun, but lifestyle pulls the trigger" but it all feels inevitable.
I've told my two kids over and over, slap me in a home and go on with your lives.  I will have dementia--my situation won't really matter to me, and they won't have dementia and life has SO MUCH MORE to offer them yet.  

My mom is mid-stage and living independently (this may be changing very soon) in a retirement community and it is SO STRESSFUL for me as I bear the brunt of the admin (I'm the only girl of three kids) and I also do 95% of the doctor visits, since my job is more forgiving, schedule wise, than my brothers'.  And I'm the girl...but don't get me started on that subject.   I don't want my kids to have to change everything about their lives to "take care of me".  I really want to move far far away from my frozen tundra home state, but here I'm stuck until my mom dies, I guess.  How pleasant... I'm very angry at dementia.  

I hope I stroke out or get a fast running cancer or get hit by a bus and flattened like a pancake.  Pretty much any quick end would be better than what my mom and our family is going through now.
Honestly, I am so scared of it because my das has early onset and I work in dementia research so I have seen first hand how dementia can affect a family on so many levels. I am 27 years old and have implemented multi vitamins in my diet. I am trying to eat healthy and I go to the gym about 3 times a week. I would love to hear more on what other people are doing.
I exercise for 40 minutes daily, try and eat a plant based diet with a small amount of fish.  I am working on reducing sugar consumption.

I read, do word puzzles and study a foreign language every day. 

I see what my mom is going through and I don’t want to suffer the same.   Sometimes I look at the lives of other relatives and think, 80-83 is probably the best stopping point, before things get bad mentally.
HUGE one I haven't seen mentioned yet: get enough sleep!!!
I figure that it's inevitable I'm going to be dx'd with dementia in the future (I'm in my mid-50s).  

I've always had a crap memory, but it got worse around age 35 when I had a stroke while taking the Pill. I have recovered but to this day still struggle with word recall. My sister has an excellent memory, and will recall things from childhood and our teen years that I just don't remember at all. My husband also has an excellent memory, and will gently let me know when I forgot something that maybe only happened recently. At work I've learned to keep detailed notes and lists and calendar reminders. 

I eat healthy, take daily vitamins, walk/hike for cardio, and signed up with a personal trainer for strength training & mobility. I keep up with doctor's appointments and so far I'm pretty healthy, and do not take any Rx meds as none have been prescribed.  

My MIL and my father had dementia. My husband and I have discussed this, as the possibility I am dx'ed with dementia some day is real. Whereas he's sharp as a tack and I just don't see that ever happening to him.  I know my husband would take care of me in the best possible way, but he also knows I would be okay going into a memory care unit if it came to that. 

I really want to retire soon, to enjoy whatever years I've got left. I also think if I was retired, I'd have even more hours in the day to focus on my own health, and a lot less stress. My dad retired in his 50s and had a good 25+ years before his diagnosis. That's what I want too.
" Retire to the woods and go out fighting a bear"

This sounds awesome! Unfortunately nothing like that in the UK

But seriously, get a POA set up well in advance and if voluntary euthenasia is legalised, sign up for it.

Otherwise it's the needle and spoon plan
This year I finally started making some major changes. While no single strategy is known to prevent dementia 100% effectively, in my family it's been closely linked to Diabetes and an overall sedentary/unhealthy lifestyle.
I've basically cut out 90% of the refined sugar from my diet (1-2 servings per week vs 3-4 per day). I now walking 1+ hrs per day and just started 1 hr of pilates 3 times per week.
My goal is to start running daily 30-60 mins, and go to. 90% vegan diet.
Positive side effects are that I feel WAY better And have been getting tons of compliments on my weight loss.
It's all gravy if I can stave off dementia longer.
Well, I have thought about this and one the most significant things that I'm doing for this is relieving stress. The largest part of my effort? Trying to get away from being my Dad's primary caregiver. The stress has been steadily increasing over the last year as his condition has worsened and I only see the stress increasing with his continued decline. Physically, he's doing pretty well which means probably another 2-5 years. And, then you have to look at your situation, the stress you're under and realize that ... right now is the best it's going to be. It's only going to get worse.

So, there are other things I'll do but that is the biggest part of my effort. Within the next 6 months (hopefully sooner), he needs a true professional primary caregiver either in-home or at a facility but ... it can't be me. If he were thinking clearly or if my Mom were still around, I have no doubt that they would tell me to get away from this situation.
I prepared my will, POA, Medical Directive, to explicitly name my health and finance strategies and curb the worst tendencies before they aggravate themselves
My beautiful mom was physically healthy all her life.  Never smoked, never overweight, active, strong.  Clean healthy farm life. She tried so many things to help her memory. Nothing stopped this disease. Do whatever you feel motivated to do but curb your expectations. Dementia is a beast.
I just ordered a bottle of Prevagen. Plus, I will never ever retire. I think part of my mom's dementia stems from her retiring early and sitting around the house all day watching tv and not doing much else to stimulate her mentally after my dad died.
I try to eat healthy, I read, I excercise 5x times a week. Things that my dad didn't do. 

Now, on the other hand, I love boxing. So I attend boxing classes and I do get punch in the head. But I am not that worried because I am not willing to go pro nor having dozens of amateurs fights. I do it for fun and I try to avoid hard hits. Also, I am sure I wont do sparring my whole life. I am 27 btw
Stop drinking sugar/carbohydrates
Omega 3 fish oil supplement. I try to take that and multivitamin. Also, regular exercise. Have interests and activities. Don’t sit in house and vegetate.
I follow a lot of the same things as other with exercise and eating well. The most important thing that I struggle with is having an active social life. It's why I wonder if a memory care unit is making things worse since so many residents are just silent lumps parked in front of a TV. Not to be disrespectful, but my dad has no one to interact with during the day.
I think my master's degree and four languages i use constantly are enough of mental exercise for now. If I'm ever not doing any of this it's Mandarin up next.
I just live my life and try to make healthy choices. Im of the opinion that if Im going to get dementia, I will get it no matter how much sodoku I do or how many jogs I take. Ive been putting off my advance directive and living will because im still young, but I need to get rid of that mindset so that my wants and wishes are clear if im ever unable to advocate for myself.
I eat really well but I can't exercise due to another health condition sadly. Wish I could because getting dementia terrifies me
Check out the “preventing dementia “ free MOOC through university of Tasmania dementia research centre! Lots of things we can do to help reduce risk of dementia (mainly healthy lifestyle choices). The Wicking research centre have lots of awesome free ‘courses’ on dementia . Highly recommend
My mom was diagnosed about 6 months ago.. found that i am also deficient in B12. Taking supplements and don't know what else to do.
Personally my current plan is to freak out that I’m totally going to get it (both my mom and grandma have it/had it), make lots of changes to diet, stress levels and activity levels…. 

…..Then quickly succumb to the insane amount of stress in my life currently and have some wine, comfort food and watch a movie. So it’s going great.
I’m vegan and eat a lot of whole foods, although I do eat some vegan junk as well. I don’t exercise, but I sure know I should. Meditation is something I love to do, but things have been very hectic the last 6 months so I need to get back to it. 

Even though I consume no animal products, my cholesterol is naturally high. Since I’m not exercising as I should, I take a low dose of cholesterol medicine which easily brings my levels down. I do think cholesterol and blood flow in general plays a huge role in dementia, so I feel keeping my cholesterol level as low as possible is important. I wish I wasn’t one of those natural cholesterol producers, but I am.
I exercise and play games that I think help. I actually took the test last week because I've been forgetting things. I passed and now I take B12 supplements. I told my bf to smother me when it's time.
I told my hubby to push me down the stairs if I get to be like my mom. I won’t know the difference and don’t want to live like that anyway.
Amen to that! I just came from my mom’s in long term care and she just doesn’t understand why she’s there (though she repeats herself in about three-minute loops). She’s so mad about it too! I told my kids when I even come close to grandma’s point, just to throw me in a home with a radio and I’ll be happy. 

Meanwhile, I started going to the gym about 5 years ago (I’m 49). I also still work at a job where I use software a lot, especially excel, and I’m still learning constantly about my work. I’m even taking a course right now. 

(And what’s with the girls taking care of mom? My brother was late to the vaccine game, but now he’s double-vaxxed so he really has no excuse!)
Check out Dr. Dale bredesen's research and books. Lots of good information and suggestions.
Same here, my Mom has early onset, I'm 30 and I've started trying to go for a run twice a week to build some exercise into my routine. I've always eaten fairly healthy foods so I'll try to keep that up, but I won't give up alcohol because I enjoy having a drink or two with my dinner most evenings. Perhaps it's a bad idea but I think the jury is still out on that.
This may be a huge ethical dilemma or whatever - but when you say "stopping point" - I hear that a certain way. 

  
That's exactly why I brought up the "go out fighting a bear" thing in my original post. 

I'm sure I'm not alone in this thinking.
I'm in the middle of a three hour podcast on sleep. My dad was a long haul driver and had bad apnea. 

Definitely a sound recommendation!
Look at you! Very impressive.
wow you're an inspiration!!
If it weren't for low expectations, I'd have no expectations at all!
Farm life may be the key. Some pesticides have been linked to dementia, specifically, Paraquat. My husband has Lewy Body Dementia, never drank alcohol or smoked, yet has dementia. He was raised on a farm. 

My parents both drank alcohol and smoked (but quit) and were each sharp until the end, at ages 84 and 88.
I must not retire. 

Retirement is the mind killer. 

I joke, but I really think this was where things started to go downhill for my dad.
That’s great. My husband with Lewy Body has a master’s. Speaks one language. I have a BS in engineering and speak 6 languages but I can only use 2 regularly. Not many people speak Romanian or Polish in the USA lol. Good point that maybe I should find a way to use the others. 

It’s sad to see the drop in IQ for my husband - from 120 overall to 84 in the lowest category and 100 average. Helps to start at a higher IQ but doctors and other high IQ people still end up with dementia.
Cholesterol is the largest component of your brain by mass after water.  Statins are proven to increase dementia risk.  You're on the wrong path.
There is a train of thought that cholesterol is not caused by fats but by carbs...
Haha I think it’s okay. If you don’t mind me asking, but how do you cope with the emotional aspect of things? Since we have decided to place my dad in long term care, my, siblings and I have been very emotional and down. I don’t know what to do and I wish I could do something. Is dealing with your mom’s dementia hard for you and your family too? How do you manage grief?
When considering a stopping point, I think I will be considering things like, Am I mobile?  Am I in pain?  Am I passing cognitive tests?  If not, is it kinder to skip the annual flu shot at that point or to continue taking medications that prevent stroke or heart attack?

I am reflecting on the passing of my father and my father in law.  One died 6 weeks after bypass surgery and the other died days after a stroke and asked that no further treatment be given to him as he didn't want to live his life in a nursing home.  Both were in their early 80s, had productive, happy lives and were working just a few weeks before their deaths.  Neither had dementia.   

I watch my mother, now 85, and it's awful.  She has no idea of who "that cute baby" is (her only great grandchild), hates being confined by memory care and lives in what I call "3 minute hell"- anything outside of 3 minutes is lost in a fog of confusion.   No hobbies now and she cannot follow the plot for movies or books so that no longer brings joy.  Until she was 83, the dementia wasn't too severe and she was able to live semi independently and she loved going on outings with me to thrift shops and grocery stores.

It's something my spouse and I discuss often- and we wonder how much agency we actually have when it comes to our last years.   Doing what we can to stay as healthy as we can.
Thanks!
Thanks!
My husband as well, but he already had dementia. He retired at 78, he lacked executive functioning to be able to retire. I think he was just trying harder then. 

If you have sleep apnea, get it treated. I have it. 

Anticholinergics. Just don’t. I never knew how evil Benedryl was (diphenhydramine).
I want to “retire” like my dad. Leave the job you HAD to go to and do whatever work you want!
I don’t think so. Research has shown that in populations that have the lowest cholesterol levels also have lower dementia rates (as well as a whole host of other ailments and diseases). Blockage in arteries are tied to decreased blood flow to the brain. Many researchers believe dementia (or at least most types of dementia)  is actually a disease caused by poor blood flow to the brain.
I agree.  My Dad was given statins as a preventive!!  I was recently offered them but declined.
I cry...
Sorry for the slow reply. Honestly...it's something I battle with every single day. It might sound like a cliché but my Mom really is my best friend, so seeing this illness take her away has been absolutely awful. I just try to tell myself that it's making me stronger, and turning me into a better person somehow by having to go through this awful experience but still carry on with normal life somehow.. it's easier said than done though. It's difficult because my Dad doesn't really like to talk about feelings or dwell on things (guess it's just his generation)..so it can be quite a lonely experience. How are you managing the grief/emotional side of it?
>Anticholinergics

Whoa. Thanks.

I read this as I'm in day four of whatever's going around. Sinus infection, I think? Been medicating with Dayquil and stuff.
 You are way off course. Statins are a terrible idea and you 
 really misunderstand cholesterol. Amyloid plaques and tau tangles are the focus point. Neither are related to 'blood flow" Please take the time to read quality research and avoid spreading misinformation about dementia.  Dr. Rhonda Patrick, Dr. Peter Attia, Dr. Amanda Smith, Dr. Hussein Yassien, Dr. Dale Bredesen  All have easily found podcasts, books/audio books that can get you course corrected on the subject.
Short term is ok. Benedryl can be life-saving if someone is having anaphylactic shock. 

There is an anticholinergic risk scale which rates medications from 1-3. Older antidepressants aren’t good. It’s important to be aware of the issue. 

I joke that to avoid dementia, smoke cigarettes. Obviously this is terrible advice. However nicotine is a cholinterase inhibitor and is in the same class of drugs to help memory and cognition such as Exelon and Aricept. 

A friend of mind takes a brain supplement called Alpha Brain which is a nootropic. He claims it’s helping his memory. Idk. 

Oh, make sure you get enough thiamine (B1) and B12. My husband has a fast food diet and won’t change. Some studies use large doses of thiamine to reverse dementia. However the point is, don’t become deficient. 

Sorry, one more. When getting older, I know of several instances where women claim Versed or general anesthesia triggered their husband’s Lewy Body Dementia. I try to avoid sedation. I recently had cataract surgery and insisted on the minimum dose. 

Above all, seek treatment at the first signs of dementia. Don’t wait until it’s too late.
Skimming the list of doctors you claim have quality research and avoid spreading misinformation, and I see you’ve listed Dr. Dale Bredesen. It looks like you are the one who needs to be more careful about who you trust when it comes to research.
Dang, that's interesting. I'm rarely sick so I've used very little of the Anticholinergics. Thank goodness.

My Dad had a series of eye surgeries a decade ago that required a lot of sedation. Add the apnea the lack of sleep from decades of cross country trucking and we're starting to connect some dots.    

Also, on the nicotine thing - would the patches be terribly harmful?  I've never done any drugs stronger than caffeine. 

Also, one of my fitness YouTubers turned me on to nootropics  - it's a tough financial pill to swallow as a poor white boy - but I might go for it. I spend a buck a day on less beneficial stuff!
Oh sorry, do you have a link to your "research shows" or whatever trash tweets you skim over?  Science is real.
Tbh, I wouldn’t get addicted to nicotine. If anything, the Exelon patch, which is for dementia, has been studied to help quit smoking because they say that smokers lose focus when they quit. 

It’s just so so important to get on that type of medication at the first sign of trouble. It’s like hearing, you can’t get back what you lose. You can only preserve what you have left. Same with memory and cognition. 

Eye surgery is one of the most common surgeries leading to dementia, maybe because it’s one of the most common surgeries in older people. 

Any particular nootropic you recommend? Do you notice a difference?
You’re very clever, accusing me of getting info from Twitter. I do have links I could give you, but I don’t care to get into an argument with you, and I think that’s all you are after. Go have some bacon and enjoy your life.
Sorry, I didn't word that too well. I haven't tried any nootropics. 

I'll have to do a couple hours of research before I can pull the trigger on something like that. 

I don't want a stimulant riddled product - a lot of what I'm seeing seems to be for the fitness community and/or guys in high stress situations. So pounding stims keeps them on top of the game. 

The last thing I need is more caffeine. 

I had never heard of Exelon - thanks for that. I'll pass that along.
No argument at all, just calling out the unfortunate misinformation you seem to be holding onto. Then directing you to facts from very accredited, highly educated MD's and PHD's. cheers!
Okay. Happy reading:

Zarrouk A, Vejux A, Mackrill J, et al. Involvement of oxysterols in age-related diseases and ageing processes. Ageing Res Rev. 2014;18:148-162.
Heverin M, Meaney S, Lütjohann D, Diczfalusy U, Wahren J, Björkhem I. Crossing the barrier: net flux of 27-hydroxycholesterol into the human brain. J Lipid Res. 2005;46(5):1047-1052.
Lordan S, Mackrill JJ, O'Brien NM. Oxysterols and mechanisms of apoptotic signaling: implications in the pathology of degenerative diseases. J Nutr Biochem. 2009;20(5):321-336.
Iuliano L, Micheletta F, Natoli S, et al. Measurement of oxysterols and alpha-tocopherol in plasma and tissue samples as indices of oxidant stress status. Anal Biochem. 2003;312(2):217-23.
Otaegui-Arrazola A, Menéndez-Carreño M, Ansorena D, Astiasarán I. Oxysterols: A world to explore. Food Chem Toxicol. 2010;48(12):3289-3303.
Poli G, Biasi F, Leonarduzzi G. Oxysterols in the pathogenesis of major chronic diseases. Redox Biol. 2013;1:125-130.
Linseisen J, Wolfram G. Absorption of cholesterol oxidation products from ordinary foodstuff in humans. Ann Nutr Metab. 1998;42(4):221-230.
Emanuel HA, Hassel CA, Addis PB, Bergmann SD, Zavoral JH. Plasma Cholesterol Oxidation Products (Oxysterols) in Human Subjects Fed a Meal Rich in Oxysterol. J Food Sci. 1991:56(3);843-847.
Staprans I, Pan XM, Rapp JH, Feingold KR. Oxidized cholesterol in the diet is a source of oxidized lipoproteins in human serum. J Lipid Res. 2003;44(4):705-715.
Savage GP, Dutta PC, Rodriguez-Estrada MT. Cholesterol oxides: their occurrence and methods to prevent their generation in foods. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 2002;11(1):72-78.
Jacobson MS. Cholesterol oxides in Indian ghee: possible cause of unexplained high risk of atherosclerosis in Indian immigrant populations. Lancet. 1987;2(8560):656-658.
Raheja BS. Ghee, cholesterol, and heart disease. Lancet. 1987;2(8568):1144-1145.
Liu Q, An Y, Yu H, et al. Relationship between oxysterols and mild cognitive impairment in the elderly: a case-control study. Lipids Health Dis. 2016;15(1):177.
Alexandrov P, Cui JG, Zhao Y, Lukiw WJ. 24S-hydroxycholesterol induces inflammatory gene expression in primary human neural cells. Neuroreport. 2005;16(9):909-913.
Lathe R, Sapronova A, Kotelevtsev Y. Atherosclerosis and Alzheimer--diseases with a common cause? Inflammation, oxysterols, vasculature. BMC Geriatr. 2014;14:36.
Testa G, Staurenghi E, Zerbinati C, et al. Changes in brain oxysterols at different stages of Alzheimer's disease: Their involvement in neuroinflammation. Redox Biol. 2016;10:24-33.
Marwarha G, Ghribi O. Does the oxysterol 27-hydroxycholesterol underlie Alzheimer's disease-Parkinson's disease overlap?. Exp Gerontol. 2015;68:13-18.
Gamba P, Testa G, Gargiulo S, Staurenghi E, Poli G, Leonarduzzi G. Oxidized cholesterol as the driving force behind the development of Alzheimer's disease. Front Aging Neurosci. 2015;7:119.
Dias IH, Polidori MC, Griffiths HR. Hypercholesterolaemia-induced oxidative stress at the blood-brain barrier. Biochem Soc Trans. 2014;42(4):1001-1005.
Wellington CL, Frikke-Schmidt R. Relation between plasma and brain lipids. Curr Opin Lipidol. 2016;27(3):225-232.
Wang HL, Wang YY, Liu XG, et al. Cholesterol, 24-Hydroxycholesterol, and 27-Hydroxycholesterol as Surrogate Biomarkers in Cerebrospinal Fluid in Mild Cognitive Impairment and Alzheimer's Disease: A Meta-Analysis. J Alzheimers Dis. 2016;51(1):45-55.

If you’d like to see a video that uses data and conclusions from the research linked above, go here: https://nutritionfacts.org/video/oxidized-cholesterol-as-a-cause-of-alzheimers-disease/
