I did, with my mom who lived with me. Looking back, her mentation had declined a bit over the previous couple of years, but there was a very definite and shocking break. One Saturday morning, she was at baseline, just occasional word finding problems; that evening she walked into the living room, looked at me sitting on the couch reading and said 'where's (my name)?' She spent the rest of the night ranting and hunting all over the house for me while I tried with increasing panic to get across to her 'mom I'm right here'. I mean it was so sudden, I thought for the first couple of minutes she was joking around. I called her sister and her daughter, they both came over, mom knew both of them but insisted she was trying to find me, while I was standing right there in front of her trying not to have a total meltdown. 

the next morning, she was back to baseline but didn't really remember the night before. Those incident rapidly increased in frequency though, to the point that within a month I had to quit my job, could no longer leave her home alone.

We never did figure out what precipitated the initial break. I hope you can, and don't have the same experience I did. Sending good thoughts.
This may sound weird, but is her blood pressure ok? A couple of years ago I went from doctoral student to "can't follow a recipe" pretty much overnight. MRI looked fine, but fMRI showed multiple abnormalities. Ultimately they decided it was many micro TBIs complicated by untreated hypertension (thanks menopause!). 

I'm pretty sure this is not a common occurrence, but thought I'd throw it out there, just in case. 

I'm really sorry you're going through this and hope the best for you and your mom.
All you can do is go to neurologist who specializes in geriatric and memory disorders. makes me wonder if she has not had a series of small TIA's?
Check for a urinary tract infection.  They can cause confusion and dementia-like symptoms with sudden onset in the elderly population
Was she tested for heavy metals, like mercury?
We’re going through this with my dad (72) right now and are also struggling to wrap our heads around it. Remarkable downturn within a couple of weeks. The doctors think is was triggered by a hospital stay that caused delirium. After he came out of the delirium, it was obvious he still wasn’t himself and he got the dementia diagnosis.
Another Urinalysis but with a urine culture is a good idea.  UTI can be sneaky and remain undetected.
very similar to what happened to   my mom. over the course of months between 69-70. "Can't figure out remote control, how to turn on computers, memory loss,  talks over people etc."

I am sorry OP. we are still looking for answers too, if i find any i will share.
My uncle did the same. Turns out he had lung cancer.
I had the exact same thing happen to my mother.  A year ago, she was able to drive, shop, knew where she was, was able to do household chores. She had some issues that were memory related, but maybe not. Became obsessed with hygiene.  The bathroom had probably $2,000 worth of soaps, hair products, medicine.  She would shower twice a day, do laundry almost every day - eccentric, but not gone.

Early March she had an elective surgery on her foot, and the general anesthesia changed her completely.  Her short term memory is completely gone.   

Neurologists just put her on memantine.  

The problem is doctors really don't care about the elderly, and dementia in particular, as it is so hard to diagnose properly.  I was told the same thing after an MRI, cat scan, everything.  

I'm about ready to try radical solutions like order Pfizer HGH pens from Turkey.  Whatever risks there are I'd rather take them and have my mom back.   

Make sure she is on blood pressure meds, get her off every prescription drug she doesn't need and even non-prescription drugs.  No NSAIDs, no antihistamines, no SSRI or Tricyclic antidepressants, no statins...  Many drugs cause dementia.  The only think you should be worried about is high blood sugar. This is a problem with HGH but metformin works 99% of the time.
Yes, and five months later she is dead after a fall. You are lucky your doctor feels this is unusual. Ours acted like we must have just missed the signs/
This sort of happened with my mom when we moved her to a new facility. I think she lost all her coping skills that helped her hide it, so it all became much more obvious.
My dad had started being angry and mean towards my husband.  He was so violently angry towards him my husband couldn’t be around him for over a year.  We still did t know what was happening.  When dad got sick with infection and had some tiny mini strokes it brought him back and he again loved my husband and had no memory of ever having any issue with my husband. He still has a hard time believing he behaved that way when it’s talked about.  He said he feels like he lost a year of his life.   Now, when dad gets an infection it seems my husband is the one who gets the most anger and can be a trigger.  It’s just sad.
Psychosis looks like dementia and vice versa
Same thing happened to my 78 year old mom. She had a very sudden and drastic drop in her cognition to where she had to move in with me. She was finally diagnosed with Vascular Dementia, though it took some time to get a diagnosis. She also had a vitamin B12 deficiency which can also contribute to cognitive decline. So sorry, I know how hard this is.
Actually at the Dr yesterday,  her BP was 180/80.
Which was really weird.
Interesting. My mother had both high and low bp. I agree; get it checked.
Agree. Along the same path, a neuropsych eval would be helpful.
..and make dementia worse and takes a while to return to how they were before...
The OP specifically said she'd been tested for a UTI.
And lead
My dad also declined quite a bit following a brief hospital stay (1 night).  He experienced delirium and has never fully gotten back from that.
This is a concern of mine.  I’m not happy that they keep removing meds from my dad when he obviously needs them. They want less drugs and don’t seem to mind that he is so angry and mad and unhappy now since they have. It’s stupid  and no sense in it. He had settled and was doing ok.  I’ve considered moving him to another home but it worries me.
High blood pressure at the doctor's could just be 'white collar syndrome'.

Best way to find out re hypertension is to have a 24 hour monitor.
You betcha!  Having an accurate diagnosis is essential. Dementia? MCI? (Mild Cognitive Impairment), ALZ?  takes effort, a variety of tests, time, and a proper team.  Having a team that with a shared information approach must  include neuropsych, psychiatrist,neurologist,geriatrician, social worker, PCP, etc. is essential. Regardless, safety of caregivers is primary. We all have limitations.
And perhaps should be tested again.
Sorry we’re in the same boat. It sucks.
