My dad used all sort of drugs, mostly THC but also some hard drugs, until he got clean around age 28. Really hard to say if it had any effect. My theory is that his alcohol use, which was always slightly past a reasonable amount, was a much bigger contributer than any of his drug use. Curious to see others input!
My Mom has dementia, never a drinker, much less drugs. She started getting symptoms around 82, 87 now and loses track of AM/PM even with a dementia clock in front of her. She does love the clock, get your person one if you have not already.
I think the trouble is studies on regular marijuana use probably won’t be public for a little while since they’re probably being conducted right now. Young adults of the 60s/70s who popularized a mainstream cannabis culture, are hitting, for lack of a better term, the “expected” age of development of dementias right now. I’ve been curious about it too and, speaking specifically about weed, it seems there are as many studies on its benefits to dementia patient care as there are studies on its detriments to long term memory. I also feel like it’s important to say, before I share personal experience, that genetics play a big role in the development of dementias and, drug use or not, neurodegenerative disease is always destructive and heartbreaking.

Anyway, all this being said, my dad apparently smoked weed regularly into his thirties. According to my mom, he dabbled in cocaine/LSD/[insert party drug here] in his 20s (though not heroin, opioids, etc. to my knowledge). He was an alcoholic most of my life and got sober when I was in my late teens (just a couple years before diagnosis). Both his parents had Alzheimer’s and they were diagnosed in their 70s/80s whereas my dad was in his 60s. We never got a definitive diagnosis & he would often apologize for “messing himself up in the head” which broke my heart every time so I try not to speculate to decisively about his lifestyle influencing his illness. BUT echoing RustyG98, I think the consistent and above average alcohol consumption probably contributed more than marijuana or hallucinogens.
MIL -- lots of alcohol, uppers, downers, anti-anxiety and antipsychotics. FIL was a doctor and prescribed a lot of it. The stories about their 70s wild parties are epic. But to my knowledge no cannabis or hallucinogenics -- if it wasn't legal and prescribeable (sp?) I highly doubt it was consumed. 

My father-- drank and did the 4 martini lunches and such, but was in no way an alcoholic. He also never did pot or anything like that -- though he'd say "if they make it legal, I'd try it." (He died two weeks ago and it's still not legal in his state). 

Someone here told me dementia is not genetic, but there is a strong history of vascular dementia in our family, so I am thinking there is a genetic component.
Actually - you could probably use those things to ease symptoms. I believe my dads dementia was caused by anti depressants and codeine
Thanks. This is very helpful for understanding the whole picture on what's happening.   Both sides of my family have no significant biological mental history problems or alcoholism.  My siblings, cousins and I are boomers and a few of us have actively smoked weed since our teens, so I have a limited control group to go by. 

My fathers Dementia was cause by clots loosened during his open heart surgery.  Doctors postulated that the surgery could have caused it. My Dad was not the same immediately after the surgery.  My mom (89) declined quickly during Covid and Care Homes have asked  us to remove her because she is so caustic.   

Preparing for the possibility of going down this rabbit hole is tough.  Preparing our families for this maybe event is easier.  Family members should not have to see their lives destroyed when this occurs.  We were not prepared, a mistake we're correcting daily. Thanks for your input.
