I'm sorry I can't soothe your worries because there are known issues with pets and people with dementia.  Trust your instincts and what you have witnessed and know that other harmful scenarios are possible. It will be easier to protect your cats if your grandpa doesn't live with you. Provide constant supervision or possibly put up gates to keep the cats in a certain area when he's visiting. Also make sure he is not able to give them anything to eat unless you are supervising. If he lives with the pets, this will obviously be more difficult and inconvenient but can still be done.  This issue causes real problems for a lot of people - I'm sorry you are having to deal with it.
Yes. I've seen my grandmother smack my sister's dog for no reason, and I've swiftly moved the dog away when it looks like she's going to be hit again. If I visit with my dog, I keep her under close supervision since she's a small breed, very slow moving, and not good at defending herself. I NEVER leave my dog alone with her.
I wouldn’t leave him alone with a roaming cat. Not only could he seriously harm your cat, it’s possible for him to get seriously scratched or bitten. (Our LO w/dementia was hospitalized several days for a blood infection after a deep cat scratch.) Baby gates won’t contain a cat, so you may need to put your cat in a locked room (with food, water & litterbox) while you’re gone.
Yeah so, MIL had a beloved dog who died when she let him out to pee during a blizzard--- and forgot she did. The dog froze to death. 

That was our first sign that MIL needed help.  You are asking all the right questions. 

I'll add here with my dad (who just passed away recently) we got him a motorized cat that purred, he had that on his lap and stroked it constantly during his last weeks. So you can find something like that to help soothe your grandpa.
Yes. My parents have two cats and my dad, who had always adored them, started to get aggressive towards them. Sometimes he thought they were going to attack him. (They're extremely sweet, calm cats.) Other times, who knows what he thought, but he'd try to push them or hit them or throw things at them. It got to the point where we never allowed him to be alone with them, and I locked them in my room at night.
I suppose I will have to get baby gates then. It’s definitely been frustrating. Especially to know when he’s alone for an hour just with my cats. Thank you for your input. I do appreciate.
F**k. This isn’t cool. Makes me not want to leave my cats alone with him ever
I just hate the fact that, she isn’t used to that. Especially locked in a room. It’s really unfortunate. I wish I could keep him in one single room. Not her.
Poor dog :( I am unsure if he ever had any pets on the past. So maybe that would work? Unless he would find my cats more interesting? Ugh. Thank you for the advice!
Jeez….my cats will have nothing to do with locking them in a night. I’ve been thinking about baby gates I just haven’t been to Walmart. But obviously the sooner the better it seems.
Ours weren't thrilled, either, but better annoyed than hurt or lost or dead. And they got used to it after a while. But yeah anything you can do to put a barrier between them and him is probably a good idea, starting with the baby gate. You just can't trust a person with dementia to understand what's happening around them and respond appropriately.
Absolutely. Now I’m on edge at night. But will have to take action on that as soon as possible. Thank you
