Will he remember in a few days that his dog died? If so, yes, probably tell him.  If he won’t remember and you have to tell him over and over, then spare him the pain of having to go through those emotions over and over and say at the kennel, getting groomed. Etc.
I got my mom a stuffed lion(ess) at the dollar store that looked like the dog she could no longer take care of. She adores it; never even acted like it wasn't real or the former dog. That was a couple of years ago and she still holds it and talks to it.
How sad.

If you can find it in your heart to adopt a dog, you might offer him a chance to get a new one - knowing you will be its actual caregiver.  Pets are wonderful comforts for Alzheimer's patients.  When the disease is quite advanced, even a stuffed toy that looks like their pet is a loved substitute.

My spouse is middle stage and would know the difference if we lost either of our pets.  He loves them so much!
No
Get another dog that looks like dad's dog or be prepared to remind him his dog died several times a day for the next several years.   Either that or put a picture of the dog on the wall with R.I.P and the dates if he can still read if you want him to try to remember.  He won't.
No absolutely not
Oh, sorry bout that.  I think it largely depends on your dads state.  A combination of sharrkeybratwurst & Synamin, perhaps.   

It might be better to bite the bullet & tell him, have a nice doggy memorial ready - like a photo in a frame with some ribbons &/or fake flowers attached, if you have a garden then a spot in the the garden with a doggy statue & RIP fake flowers or whatever... 

But if yr dad is further gone, then yeh, as sharrkeybratwurst said, tell him it's away - but you'll have to tell him that a million times a day... Maybe make a framed photie of doggy, with "coming home next week" written on it... idk... Sad, so sorry.
No.
If that news will agitate him or create anxiety then don't.

Just work around it as much as possible, maybe remove anything that could remind him.

It's just hard sorry.
My husbands cat died a few weeks before my husband did.  It was devastating to him.  Daily he would go through the heartbreak over and over again when he would learn of it.   When I tried telling him the cat was in another room he would eventually try to go find it forgetting he could no longer walk on his own and almost injure himself.   In the end I fostered a cat that enjoyed being cuddled and while he knew it wasn’t his own, it made him calm and happy.
This is the correct answer.
Actually, would it be even better to get him a replacement dog that looks a lot like his previous dog?
That sounds so sweet .
Yes, I second the suggestion that you get him another dog that looks a lot like the previous dog that he used to have.
