It is already past the point where one person should be responsible for his care. This is an awful burden for your mom, even if she wants to do it. Being the caretaker for someone who was once your partner is mentally, emotionally, and physically exhausting. If she's doing it all, around-the-clock, she gets no recharge time & risks burnout. Not to mention that one or both of them could be seriously injured if your Dad fell or had a confused episode turn aggressive.

I get how frustrating it is that the disease is so uneven at this stage. He's physically capable but mentally unable. He's retaining broad brush strokes but not to a useful extent. 

It is past time for professional help. Whether that is getting a paid caretaker in the home (at least for an 8hr day, but probably 24/7 with complete incontinence) so that your Mom gets trained help & some of her own day back or getting him into memory care, it is time.
When the family feels it's still "early" is probably about right. Before the person's health affects other family members' health, while the person can somewhat understand what's going on and settle into a new place before it's totally new, scary, and they have no idea why they're there.

My mom although she fought us on being in memory care, she was in denial of what was happening to her and she'd broken her hip and was mostly wheelchair bound because she didn't comprehend therapy and couldn't walk with a walker. She'd lived half an hour from me, my disabled brother lived with her, my sister lived about 20 minutes away and had kids so she was much too busy. We all did what we could when we could, and she had an aide come in to give my brother a break 6-8 hours a day before the fall. 

My sister, her POA, decided that Mom being in memory care with my sister's mother-in-law was a great idea and made the decision without us. I fought that because it felt like it was all done for my sister's convenience. After a few weeks, Mom settled in and I realized she was interacting with more people, doing more things, and was taking her meds and not fighting them like she did us. We all rotated days so someone was there every day to see her, it was easy for people from her church and other family members to pop in for a few minutes. Bathroom accidents were handled quickly and properly, where before Mom tried to "help" if she needed cleaned up and made it worse. I withdrew my objections because the imagined torturous hellscape wasn't there, it was a group of old ladies and a few men with similar issues being cared for, getting their nails painted, singing songs, watching movies together, etc. 

The only times she really got upset was when my brother came and he refused to take her home with him. We finally came up with the "kick the can down the road" game, where we'd tell her to talk to the doctor the next time he came in. She didn't recognize the facility's doctor, so she couldn't ask him about being released. If she asked the staff, they'd tell her the same thing or that she needed to work harder in therapy to get up and walk before the doctor would release her. It seemed to satisfy her.

Mom eventually decided she was back at work as a senior citizen home visitor and these were her clients. The staff went along with it, pointing her to ones who seemed withdrawn or were new. About 2 weeks before she died mom informed me she thought it was time she put in her notice, that she was getting too old to do her job any more.
The point is a lot earlier than most people want to believe.  Being the full-time caregiver for someone with dementia is devastating especially when it's your spouse.  My MIL never recovered even though we helped and brought in caregivers.  It sounds like it's past the time your family should have been having this conversation.  It's possible to extend the time at home if you are lucky enough to have enough hands to share the labor and the funds to bring people in but if your mom is doing the lions share then it's already gone on too long.
I know for my mom, we put her in an adult daycare 3 times a week. This has greatly reduced stress for myself and my dad. She has also declined significantly in the past year. Along with bowel and bladder incontinence in the past month. We use the depends and pads on the bed. It is a lot to handle. My dad has never been a patient man and caregiving has been hard. But the daycare has been a decent change until we get to the inevitable.
My grandma blew up my bathroom once and refused to wear depends and I knew it was too much for me to handle. 

Can your mom bring in some help?  I believe it’s best to stay home as long as possible, and bringing in help can prolong that. Unfortunately my grandma was not open to in home care, so I had to either forfeit my life (quit my job for good) or get her into memory care. I opted for memory care and it resulted in an immediate improvement in her comfort level and allowed us to have a relationship.
My husband has Parkinson's and dementia, and I'm part of a support group for caregivers.  We've had several guest speakers over the years, and they all say that a definite tipping point for moving a loved one into a facility is loss of bladder/bowel control.  

A couple of women in the group are at that point with their husbands, but money concerns and guilt are standing in the way of them making that decision.  In the meantime, these women are tired and stressed all the time.  It would be  no surprise if one or both of them have a major health crisis very soon.  

Unfortunately, there's no "nice" way to deal with this.  I don't know your parents financial situation, but is it possible to hire someone to come to the house and help her out periodically?  No easy answers.
We also have done an adult daycare. 3 days a week my grandma goes. They try to take her to the toilet every 2 hours which seems to help with accidents. I also try to carry it over at home but sometimes don't. It is difficult to handle even as a caregiver in my 30s. I'm sure it is very stressful and demanding on your mom. Either getting him into a similar daytime facility a few days a week may be a good first step or having someone come in to the home. Once she gets a little free time from him, she may be more open to change. Most options take time to set up anyway, and they aren't a full commitment like a long term facility. It might be a good middle ground. But I would keep encouraging it.
I’m in the same boat. My dad is the same but the incontinence isn’t as much. But it’s been hard for my mom so we’re in the midst of doing the leg work to send him to long term care.
I would recommend doing several days a week of adult day care - they can deal with all of the toileting issues, give your Mom a break, and the activities they do will be enjoyable and stimulating for your Dad.
My thoughts are that your mom will absolutely know the moment she can’t do it any longer, and let you know. She sounds like a strong lady, but it will catch up to her soon, likely within a few months like you mentioned.  I am sole caregiver for my wife, both 70, and she has incontinence. I change her several times a day sometimes and she hates it, but I have to make sure she’s clean. I get hair pulled and scratches while doing it, but I’m not ready for her to go into a home yet. She’s been diagnosed 6 years, I do the cleaning and cooking as she cant. But she still can get around well, we walk twice a day in good weather. She talks mostly in nonsensical language, so not a lot of great conversations. We’ve been married 50 yrs this month, and I’m just not ready. But I will know exactly when that time comes.

I had her in a respite home for 5 days in sept  to take a short hiking trip to refresh myself, and saw the others in there mostly older and in fairly bad shape. It was sad to leave her there. I understand the feeling that he may not be ready for that.   


Its a great idea to get him into an adult home 2-3 days a week for now, that will give her a good break, and he would probably enjoy it. I have checked into it, but we have aides coming in 3 days a week for showers and a volunteer coming to sit with her 2 days a week for 3-4 hours (all through hospice).
+1 that this is already too much of a burden on your mom. In assisted care facilities several people would do the job you're describing.
It's so hard for some folks to let their spouse go to a home. My dad had to basically need his 3rd hip replacement and be bed ridden for 3 months before he gave in and allowed us to take her into a home. Nobody ever knows "when" is a good time or "when" it's ready.
Your mom needs help with this decision so be there to tell her it's ok. Start looking at places, checking benefit's/insurance/etc. It's a huge decision and help her be a part of it.
One thing we found recently was palliative care.  It is like hospice but for people with serious/terminal illnesses who aren’t expected to die in the next few months.  My dad lives on the same property as my sister (and down the block from me) but has his own house.  He is still continent (mostly) but he is unable to manage most of his life skills.  Up until a couple of weeks ago, he could walk his dog on his own but now we have to go with him - he fell last week when on a walk and someone, thankfully, brought him home.  Anyway, palliative care is covered by Medicare if it is skilled nursing care as this program is.  In the 3 weeks since we signed him up, we have had 4 or 5 visiting nurse visits (changing bandages from his last fall, brought his flu shot to him, bringing a mobile X-ray today to check a lingering hip pain); we have had visits from an occupational therapist, a physical therapist, a social worker and a chaplain.  They have reviewed all his meds and taken him off of stuff that are for long term maintenance (prostate; high cholesterol) and changed up his antidepressants.  The goal is to focus on his quality of life rather than trying to keep his body alive as it outlives his brain.  Pain and anxiety management is paramount.  They have also provided other resources that we can investigate related to having someone come in a few hours a week (at our cost), day care programs, etc.  Alzheimer’s qualifies as a terminal illness which is what allowed him to qualify.  The other objective is to avoid calling 911 (which we’ve had to do a couple of times).  Now, we call the PC team and they troubleshoot immediate symptoms and then send someone over to check him out.  It has been a godsend in the 3 weeks that we’ve been working with them.  My dad has almost no money so long term care out of home is something we need to delay for as long as possible.  Having the PC team really provides a lot of peace of mind.
It is totally dependent on what caregivers can handle, and, imo, is different for everyone and every situation. For the most part, there is no right or wrong answer.
I agree that it's past time, and a terrible burden on my mom.   She never gets any time at all for anything and feels like she can't leave him alone.  I'm there as much as I can be (every 2-3 weeks) but she just can't be convinced to bring help in.  Partially due to the cost, since she says "why should I pay someone to do something that I can do" and partially due to being embarrassed about the situation.  She constantly compares herself to other people she's heard about or met "well so-and-so took care of their husband at home for 10 years, i should be able to do that too" despite my telling her that it's not indicative of her ability or compassion,  every one has a different breaking point and I don't want to lose her too

&#x200B;

The situation is getting bad but I think it would have to get much worse (violence, injury) before she will want to pay for someone to be there.  She won't want to give up their privacy, and doesn't want to start paying now for in-home care without knowing how long he will end up in a long term facility at 70-90k / year.

&#x200B;

How do you know when its time for a long term care facility?
holy cow,  the end of your story is somehow both sad and uplifting.  

&#x200B;

some of the hesitancy from my Mom to put Dad in a long term facility is that the people there are so much older than him and it makes her sad,,, and I am sure my dad would be 100% against it.  there's no way to make that man do something he doesn't want to do.  it's nice you were able to visit so much and always have someone there for your mom.  how old was your Mom when she went into memory care?
Your story brought me to tears, I’m so glad the facility went along with her at the end. Bless your family.
yeah I agree, though how do you force someone (my Mom) to do something she just refuses to do?   she's fought the ideas of outside help this whole time and is too proud to accept it.
did she fight going to daycare?   how did you sell that to her?
she did contact some local organizations that charges i think $30/hour to stay with my Dad if she wants to run errands but to date she hasn't actually used the service and I don't know if they do personal care stuff or just keep him occupied.   I'm visiting this coming weekend so I'm hopefully going to be able to convince her its time for daily visits from a care worker
Yeah the women in the group you are describing sound exactly like my Mom.  although she refuses to take part in any group therapy type situation.   

&#x200B;

I'm sorry that you are having to deal with the situation too.   My dad has a test for Parkinson's this Friday,  hours of prep and xray etc,  i'm not sure what will happen if he has a bowel control issue while he's doing that, its going to be a rough day for them.   

&#x200B;

working on convincing my Mom to hire someone to come in regularly.   they are OK financially if they had the retirement they planned on,  but with a looming 70-90k annual bill for memory care.. it will go pretty quick
thanks  i like that option , will be working on convincing my Mom this weekend that that is the best next step
[deleted]
I’m wondering if you are in the US? I’ve not heard of “Palliative Care” and it sounds like it could be a good fit for my Mom.
Hmmm. I’m guessing that your mom is referring to people who cared for folks who didn’t have dementia when she’s comparing her situation to others. 

I had a lot of guilt as well. A good friend who helped me with her move said “I would never put my mom in a home”. Very insensitive comment. Imagine refusing to take someone to the dr for diabetes or a broken bone, saying instead that you’ll care for them at home as your ancestors did. It doesn’t make sense and unless you’ve got tremendous resources at home, the dementia patient may be deprived of proper care in the name of looking good to others.
It's time now. She may feel like she is failing if she moves him into care but once it happens she will be so relieved. My mom resisted putting her mom into care and it wasn't until my grandma had developed bad bedsores and had to go to the hospital that she was finally convinced. Now she says she profoundly regret not moving her sooner and that she was totally unable to provide good care but didn't know how to ask for or get proper help. You should do all the legwork...find facilities, figure out how and who pays. Show her that it isn't a bad thing to have him cared for by professionals. Eventually, if she still resists, he is going to end up in hospital...due to infections from the incontinence or he'll fall and injure himself...that is the time for you to gently but firmly insist he be put into a care facility.
Not a professional but this definitely sounds like too much for one woman to handle! Best wishes.
Have you talked to your mom in detail about their insurance situation, including Medicare? Did they ever take out any long term care insurance? It is worth asking her because maybe she doesn't want to take advantage of it but now is the time to do it. 

I think the answer you are getting here is that NOW is the time for a long term care facility. I'm sorry it isn't the answer you wanted, but it seems pretty clear that your mother is already overwhelmed and the situation will only keep getting worse.
My dad passed before my mom, but I'm sure that he would have tried to do the same thing. Here's two possible avenues:

1. If she's insisting she wants to do the work, because that's what you do or she feels too guilty, tell her that you'd support that if she gets some help for her. With the diagnosis, most insurance will cover the cost of having a professional assessment of the home to assess risks and appropriateness. You can ask/coach that person ahead of time to try and normalize the idea that her remaining as primary caregiver includes also paying for help. And you can ask her to talk with a therapist who specializes or has experience in the field & see if they can also help her shift her perspective to the idea that (a) there is no shame, this is just life, and (b) just because she can do it, doesn't mean she's the right person to do it.
2. Try and arrange to come to town during doctor visits (if he isn't getting periodic doctor visits, you should start) and ask the doctor to queue up conversations about professional care. If the doctor is telling her visit after visit that he's past the point, she'll probably be able to embrace it faster. 

Also, if you haven't already, make sure your paperwork is in order - POA, medical directives, medical POA. If you don't know what his wishes are, find out. It sounds like your mom might have a hard time executing on them if he only wants palliative care after a certain point.
Some of the best advice I have received from our Primary Physician is that when the family’s health and well-being is affected, it’s time to look for in-home care/help. When your loved one’s health or safety is at risk, it’s time for a care facility. 

Every situation is different but know that there is nothing wrong with being an advocate for getting help.
Mom was a special lady. They picked up on the fact that she was a helper and in some ways she made their jobs easier because she was keeping the upset ones occupied. It was bittersweet when we'd go to visit and take her outside for a bit and she'd insist break time was over and she needed to get back to work. Couldn't convince her otherwise, so back to the community room we'd go, where she'd settle right in and go back to visiting. She was 78 when she was admitted.  


Has she actually gone to a memory care and talked to them or taken a tour? She might be surprised at how young and sometimes able-bodied some of the patients are. There was a lady in Mom's MC unit who was in her late 40s- early 50s who had non-dementia related brain issues that made her need to be in a secured unit There were dementia patients from their 50s up. If you can find one locally, he might even know someone in there or know their families. If nothing else, you might look into at least getting him set up for respite care in MC, so your mom can have a break for a day or two, if that's available now. I don't know how all of the covid stuff has affected the various programs. Mom died in January before covid.
Ohhh goodness I was nervous the first few times we brought her. She put up a fight! She is very stubborn and can get super agitated and defensive. We would kind of get her in the door and quickly leave. The staff at the daycare are pros though. They know how to greet her and talk about her old job teaching. They also have a locked facility for wandering/safety purposes. After a month it became a routine and she became less apprehensive. We call it her "club." All the nurses and staff are amazing. I would recommend looking into it.
He may also thoroughly enjoy the socialization and routine of going. Especially since you said he can still conversate. Definitely list the pros. Good for him and her both at this point. They probably both need some "me" time. He would be in a safe environment and this would give her peace of mind knowing he is safe. Even if she does nothing but drink coffee and read while he is there, it is a relief.
LOL!  Exactly.
Yes, we are in Southern California. I hadn’t heard of it either until quite recently- a nurse friend suggested it. So we googled it and there were a number of hits. One of them was affiliated with a local hospital and his doctor happened to be part of that medical network so we called that one first. Jackpot! (Or so it seems so far)
Yeah she's referring to other people that care for spouses with dementia.  Constantly comparing herself to what others have done, without knowing the specifics (maybe they were early stage for 8 years?)    i think she uses the 'i dont want people to think i didnt do enough' to cover the fact that internally its she herself that she doesn't want to let down,   giving everything she can for as long as possible so that she doesn't feel guilty.
i think we're all scared at how quickly he might go downhill after being moved to a long term facility.  right now he still likes to go outside and feed the birds and squirrels and sweep the deck,  doesn't seem possible that someone capable of those things can't dress or care for themselves

&#x200B;

me and my siblings have been working to identify a long term facility and i'm working with the VA to try and find out if my dad qualifies for any benefits from them

&#x200B;

not accepting the reality of it was a big hurdle for my mom to overcome.  she just couldn't admit to herself this was all happening and its really accelerated so quickly (he was working up until Dec 2019)
we talked about long term care a couple years ago when my Dad was early stage.  I called multiple companies and none of them will write a policy for when the patient has dementia.   

&#x200B;

You're right, its not the answer I wanted but its the answer in my heart that I know would be the best for both of them.   I can see her hanging on for another 3-6 months, hopefully with the assistance of some in-home care.  My dad worked so hard for so long to give us all the life we have and to see him not even being able to enjoy his retirement (forced because of dementia) makes me cry
I know how you feel. It's awful. My dad finally retired and was looking forward to spending time and traveling with my mom... but she has dementia, and his retirement now involves taking care of her. Not how any of us imagined things. I'm lucky enough to be in the same city and am there with them daily, but I'm still starting to push my dad more strongly to consider a care facility. He's holding up all right, and my mom is his life and he *wants* to take care of her, but I'm concerned about his quality of life as much as my mom's. It's easier with me helping and also in-home carers every few days, but it's still far from easy.  

None of it is easy, and just about all of it sucks.
