There is generally a large jump in quality of care when you go from a smoking to a non-smoking facility. There is a strong correlation and it's for a number of different reasons. Wean him off of nicotine with gum or a patch if you can. Then get him some fake or prop cigarettes for the muscle memory habit.
Ok so YMMV considerably, but: my mum was a chain smoker who was obsessed with cigarettes. Before she moved, she'd literally try to pay for things at the grocery store with her cigs because they were so valuable in her mind. If she thought she was out of smokes she'd tear the house apart looking for them. She'd hide cartons of them to keep them safe from the "thieves." She started smoking when she was twelve.

I found a home that got her off smoking. She wore a patch and was medically supervised through the transition, but she hasn't had one since she moved in two and a half years ago. Not to suggest that it was easy, but by the time she moved I was not equipped to help her through that. They were. 

I wonder if you can find a home that will do the same?

Good luck - I know just how hard it can be.
Don’t know where you live, but know it IS an option.  Maybe lead with that?  And this is the worst possible option, but have you tried telling him he doesn’t smoke?
Same exact situation. Look for assisted living communities that are only assisted living (most places are assisted living with an attached memory care). He’ll have to smoke outside still and what not. They also might want to monitor his cigarettes and treat them like meds essentially. If he does get accepted, build a strong positive relationship with the executive director and also know your rights.

With that being said, my dad has been kicked out of 3 assisted living for smoking in his room and is now in memory care as a non smoker and hates everything because smoking was a hobby to him.
When my dad was hospitalized for 2 weeks, they didn't let him smoke, and started him on patches that he didn't seem to notice. When we took him back home, we continued putting a new patch on every day, until maybe 2 weeks later when we realized we hadn't been doing it for a couple days and he hadn't asked. He just... forgot he was a smoker.
Just like shopping for a rental, seek places that would accept a pernicious habit like smoking, to avoid discovering at the 11th hour that the effort's been wasted.
He's been a chain smoker longer than I've been alive - we have already talked to the court about it - we can't force him to quit.
He cares more about smoking than food at this point.
Thankfully my dad smokes outside - I think their main concern was wandering.
I’m upset that they kicked your dad out for smoking in his room because that’s preventable and truly the facilities fault. I’m a geriatric nurse and have worked in many different ALF, MC, and SNFs. Every single one, we did a smoking assessment upon admission and again if warranted and if they didn’t score that they were safe to smoke independently, we held their cigarettes and supervised smoking to prevent those situations
We were upfront about it in the beginning unfortunately.

Good news is we toured a place that will give us the rate of our desired place and is okay with smoking.
That's hard. Hmmm. Is he lucid and functional enough that he's going to the store and buying them himself?
Oh no, that's too bad. My great-aunt accidentally quit smoking when she got dementia because she forgot she smoked. Sounds like that won't be an option with your dad, though I was surprised at how my great-aunt dropped a decades-long habit, so maybe you can hope...?
Yes I agree, although as much as I hate to say it, my dad also brought it upon himself. He has dementia but is still very high functioning. He would smoke half the cigarette then hide it for later amount doing other mischievous things. He is pretty good at pulling one over on you. I have made a habit of asking every professional who interacts with him how difficult and stubborn he is. They have all said he takes the cake.
Yes.
Unfortunately I don't think you'll be able to intervene on the smoking unless/until he loses the ability to supply himself with them. I would recommend finding a nice smoking residence, just vet them carefully and stay involved so you can watch for any mistreatment.
