Unfortunately, I think you need to take steps to prevent him from getting lost in the first place, not track him when he gets lost, just for his safety.  I don't know where you are but we are coming into winter where I am and getting lost in our horrible winter climate could be deadly.  :(
[deleted]
We use a device from a service called AngelSense.  It was originally developed for children with autism but also works well for dementia patients.  For my dad, we have a small device that he carries in his pocket (we take it each night to charge and then give it to him in the morning to put in his pocket).  However, I believe there is a non-removal wearable device option as well.  My dad is declining mentally quite a bit but is very strong physically.  He likes to walk his dog each morning and afternoon.  With the device, my sister and I each get an email that Dad has left home.  We have geo-fenced it so that we get a message if he goes outside the mapped area.  I also have set a couple of position points that he passes on his usual route so that I know that he is where he should be.  For example, if he is on his usual route, I get a message after about 10 minutes saying he passed the local coffee bar.  I know that he should pass back by there in another 20 minutes so keep an eye out for that confirmation.  The app also has a map on it that shows where he has traveled and where he is at that minute.  If he is misplaced (say took a turn too early), we can talk through the device and tell him to wait where he is and someone will come fetch him.  There is also an SOS button but I doubt he would remember that or recall how to use it.  This device has allowed my dad many more months of independence (at least in terms of taking his dog for a walk).  However, he fell recently while on a walk (his dog’s leash got tangled around his legs) and someone had to bring him home; at least for the time being, I am walking with him.
I agree but I don't know how to prevent him from leaving the house alone. I've talked to elder services where we live and they said we can't lock him on the property, which makes sense. Usually during the day someone is around to go with him if he wants to go on a walk, but sometimes he just slips out alone without telling anyone.
Thank you. I've seen those shoe inserts. I may consider it but he wears a few different pairs of shoes so I'd have to buy several.

The situation with your grandpa sounds very similar. My dad usually has someone to walk with, and we're lucky enough to be in a low traffic area. But his mind can't keep up with his body when he's out alone.
Thank you, I'll look into that company.
google:  wanderer bracelet gps

Something might appear useful (even better would be ankle bracelets -- out of sight, out of mind).
