One thing that was *always* a huge hit at my dad's memory care was having everyone in a circle and batting a balloon around, either with their hands or a section of a pool noodle. 

 They also enjoyed sing-a-longs.  There was a brilliant guy who'd come in and play a collection of commercial jingles, folk songs and old hymns on a guitar.  Even the most checked out would often brighten up and sing along with "Oh, I wish I were an Oscar Meyer Wiener".  

Organizing simple card games.

Simple trivia games based on nostalgia.  

At Christmas, they organized a cake walk with cupcakes as the prize.  They had to do it for three days straight, everyone loved it so much.
My mom is still early in her dementia, but she loves puzzles. The bigger the puzzle pieces, the better.

Also just want to comment to thank you for thinking of these patients! It means a lot to the families to know there is someone there who wants to help. ♥️
MUSIC. Walking, play dough, google “busy boards”. Each person will have different abilities and interests. 

I recommend watching some of Teppa Snow’s content on YouTube. When given step by step instructions/assistance, it’s really great for residents to help complete a task together, such as baking muffins! Have one person put a muffin wrapper in each spot of a muffin tin, have one person stir, another person scoop.
My dad's doctor has him writing down 10 things he did each day. He mostly writes that he misses my mom, who passed last year. But, it does seem to be helping.
At my mom’s place they set up a table for nail painting.  Some residents can do their own, others need them done by one of the staff.  They keep a tub of nail polish bottles and bring them out once a week and the ladies love it.

One craft they do that is very simple is making paper chains for the holidays and combining everyone’s efforts to make the dining room festive.  Last month was black and orange and this month it’s the color of fall leaves.

Someone comes in to play the piano and do sing alongs nearly every day of the week.  One lady will make it half music time, half game show, “can someone tell me the words to this tune?”  But any live music is awesome.  Also 50s music- a dance party- is fun to do, even if people can only clap along.

They also have a few remote control cars the residents love to play with.

Slice and bake cookies- decorating them them as well, is easy fun.  Sometimes residents don’t understand size of the dough- one lady made tiny bead sized balls of cookie dough to place on the cookie sheets but nobody said a word.
Definitely the sing-a-longs.  Youtube has many songs with lyrics.  Be sure to ask them what songs they want to sing along to cause its night and day the difference between songs they themselves pick versus you pick.

Jenga.

Thats really nice of you to care.  Been looking at places for my dad.  So far, its pretty clear they purposefully make their activities cheap.  Everything reusable so no crafts where you have to continuously buy new materials.  Sad the end of our lives comes to this when we have dementia.
I work in rec, and they love any physical activity: chair zumba, chair yoga, dance classes- I play this game called "hot potato" where they pass a ball in a specific order around a circle to music, and when the music stops, we all do a group movement (chair jumping jacks, stretches, marches, etc.). It's really good for confidence building and exercising their expressive memory (non-verbal)! 😁
(TV's not good, especially in excess imo)

Think outside the box:  be able to offer a Variety of simple yet engaging activities such as:  (bulk purchased for random personal building projects) lego blocks & accessories such as mini-figs / landscaping bits & pieces, find-a-word puzzle books, sketch paper & pencils, print online coloring pages for variety, coloured pencils work so much better than crayons. 

A variety of reading material at or a bit above their level might be a hit, or at least, varied picture magazines.
Do things like reminisce games, talk to them about growing up, and what they liked when they were younger
Modelling clay. Not Playdough (it dries out) but the old-fashioned kind that stays soft. Add some of those plastic tools and cookie cutters, and stand back and watch the fun.
I just hope the visitors can understand we're short staffed, I'm overwhelmed, but I'm willing to come there every shift with a smile on my face and be there for these beautiful souls. They have puzzles, but like 500+ pieces and I tried to do it with them today, and saw no interest in it (probably due to too many pieces I assume). I'm gonna bring these topics and ideas up with the manager, otherwise I'll buy them out of my own pocket.
Thank you for the suggestions. I will start incorporating these ideas into the day, thank you again. I know that plenty of people can benefit from animals, do you think it would be ok to ask to take my Labrador retriever in for a short period to interact with the residents?
I was thinking about some writing activity. Perhaps just ask them to write how they feel, if they miss anything or anyone, what they enjoy, etc.
Yes to all of this! Especially nails and don't forget hand massages with lotion, they adore it
If a patient was mentioning shopping frequently? would it be a good idea to maybe bring a catalog in?
Those puzzles are likely too complex for the people you are working with. Things that worked with my mother during different phases of her disease were things that didn’t rely on complex thinking or reasoning along multiple strands at once. We went back to more simple things. Some activities that worked were: children’s games like Candyland,or Chutes and Ladders; tasks that allowed her to use different senses and to feel useful ( even if it wasn’t really) like sorting a boxful of different buttons, simple crafts like making simple things with modeling clay or pipe cleaners; basic gardening tasks like planting seeds - all these can be good but at least some need supervision. Also as someone else said, music can be really really good - usually the music of the person’s youth. There are also many books you can get that have activities for different levels in them and those might help.
There might be rules against having animals unless they are service animals, but you are right animals can be a good thing! You might be able to find a local volunteer or someone training animals who could bring them as practice!

One word of caution: some more severe dementia cases can confuse non-edible items for food. So just keep an eye on things like Lego or play dough if you see signs of that.
Give it a shot. I think it helps.
My mom loved looking at catalogs. If you could find out what interests them then maybe you could even tailor it to them. A suprising number of companies will still send out catalogs if you request them. My mom was a doctor and she loved the medical training materials catalogs that came for her. If you're not sure what they're into I'd try a Vermont Country Store catalog. It's full of old timey gifts that may spark memories.

Thank you for caring so much about your residents.
My mom adores catalogs.  She has always loved clothes.  It’s harder to find catalogs now but she even loves the ones full of dumpy clothes she can criticize.
This is an excellent idea. My MIL mentions shopping a lot, but money is tight and we are trying to keep her area free of stuff. I am going to try out the idea of bringing some catalogs to look at and talk bout the value and pros and cons of different products.
I'd suspect they were seeking outside activities. 

I suppose supervised loaning of a catalog would be relatively harmless.
When not doing activities, I try to keep the living room area and other common areas very clean and not cluttered.
