I'm sorry.  Mom always called me to say Happy Birthday.  3 years ago, she didn't call.  I knew she couldn't remember anymore.  So that Sunday, I brought some cupcakes over and told her, "Mom!  Let's celebrate my birthday!"  She was happy to wish me a happy birthday then.  But I get it!  If we are lucky, the one person who always remembers our birthday is our Mom.  When they can't remember any longer, it's sobering.  Happy Birthday to you!
That's rough, I'm so sorry. I can relate - my dad has Alzheimers and my mom is preoccupied taking care of him, no siblings and a boyfriend who cannot remember a birthday to save his life. It always sucks. So glad you had friends to celebrate with! Sorry about your parents. You have my understanding and sympathy.
Yes, it's like being orphaned a little. Mom didn't do what Mom always does. Glad you had friends there for you. This is how life goes. You're here for all of it, the sweet and the bittersweet.
I’m so sorry. It is a big deal. And you are so young to be going through this. I’m glad to hear you have supportive friends.
Yup. Ripped my heart out when it happened to me. Dementia takes them away from you bit by bit.
It's a heartbreaking journey, and every step hurts.  Hugs  and happy birthday.

My birthday's in a few weeks, and every day she calls, worried that she's forgotten it.  She called at 7 am this morning (she rarely gets up before 10), thinking I was my sister, anxious that I'd get my birthday present in time.  I assured her I'd be up to visit on my birthday, so she can relax.  Tonight she'll likely be stressed out about it again.  

There have been years in the past where she's forgotten.  My sister and I team up to remind her "Sis's birthday is coming up, what shall we do for her?" dozens of times before the date, then call on the day to remind her again.  Without that she would not know either of our birthdays.  

I'm so glad your friends were there for you.  Found family is essential.
HUGS!  I can relate!  My mom forgot my 60th birthday.  Damn Alzheimers!
Happy Birthday!
I'm sorry. Judging by your age the altzhiemers send to very early onset which is very tragic. Hope your friend are supportive.
My mum forgot my birthday two years running. Nothing wrong with her. Wondering if she will remember next year. 
It hurts.
My mom's mom had Alzheimer's, and my mom told me that she felt she lost her mom the day she forgot her birthday. She still talks about it. I know how much it can hurt. I'm so sorry you're going through this.
That is so sad. I'm wishing you a happy birthday. 💐
I'm sorry.

I'm 31, a dead dad, no siblings, and a 74 year old mother. I don't know what to say except that you're not alone.
Sorry to her that. It's a very difficult situation. Alzheimer's sucks. Happy Birthday!
Thank you! Yes i’m taking her out for dinner this saturday, bought a gift that she can give me - her mind is slipping, but the emotions stay.
That is a very nice reply, thank you❤️
Thank you, feels good to get nice replies
❤️ means a lot
It sucks. But it is nice to read i’m not alone, both my real friends and this community!
She’s 69, so within ‘the statistics’. Still, so young.
Thank you❤️
Thank you. Its hard but we’ll manage ❤️
Wonderful.  Your Mom will be so happy to celebrate with you.
