That sounds insanely high to me.  My aunt/uncle and dad own a house together (also their only asset) and need to sell it because they can no longer maintain it due to failing health. I recently got them an elder law/Medicaid attorney to establish a trust to my protect dad's benefits (he already is on Medicaid) and do estate planning for all of them (wills, all POAs, etc).  It's going to be $1000 for my aunt/uncle and $2000 for my dad, for a total of $3000.  Not the exact same situation, and we are in the Midwest, but still.  $25K is A LOT.
I wonder if they misspoke. $2,500 is more believable.
It doesn't sound right at all. Get some other quotes.
What exactly is the lawyer producing? If you are saying: House closing, 2 Health Care Proxies, 2 Wills, 2 Power of Attorneys, plus handling at least 2 filings for Medicaid (home services then nursing home) that is a lot of work, especially the last 2. My father's Medicaid filing went on for months with me tracking down checks from the last 5 years for nonsense like lawn care. That took enough of my time, fortunately the lawyers office handled all the interactions with the government and only handed me a list of receipts to hunt down. 

Get the specific list of services and get a second opinion.
We probably spent half that, but not in DC.
That sounds insane. It cost my FiL about 3k to do all of that, plus set up a trust for his disabled daughter, among other items. Find another lawyer. You should be able to google an average cost for a Elder Law attorney in your area.
That sounds really, really high to me, as well. I don't recall exactly what we paid - but it was no more than $5,000. Does DC have a subreddit? Maybe ask for some recommendations there. 

Have you looked into hospice for your Dad? It is basically free. They have a wealth of knowledge, and can do a LOT to help your Dad. Hospice is not just for people who face imminent death. They have certain guidelines to meet to qualify, but come for 6 month increments, then you resubmit paperwork for the next 6 months. 

It’s possible Mom might be a candidate for Hospice, as well. There are different level of care. Hospice would take a huge load off of your shoulders if they are going to live with you. You will also want to line up a social worker for them in DC.

Do they have a personal physician now who could recommend them for Hospice? You’ll want to find a new physician for them in DC asap.  Just get one lined up to start with, who would (hopefully) be on board for Hospice, and do the required paperwork. Have their medical records forwarded to the new doctor. If you end up not liking the new doc, you can always change later. My folks went through several before we found an amazing one!

Don’t rule out  assisted living places near you. The good thing about them is that they provide a community for our elders. There is a lot of support among residents themselves, as well as staff support. When my Dad passed, we were literally in the middle of a hurricane. No phone or internet, trees across my driveway. Mom’s fellow residents took her under their wing (s), and were amazing - as was the staff, until I could get there. 

There is just so much. It’s overwhelming. If you have any questions I can help with, having recently been through much of this, feel free to reach out. Yeah, it sucks. We need changes, for sure. Hugs.
We use a geriatric social worker. Expensive but reasonable compared to this.
Wow, we did elder estate care and planning for my Mother-in Law, about 5 years ago in NY. It included Trust, Will, all medical documentation such as DNR and something else, POA's and a few other things for about $5000, and I thought that was a lot.  I'd shop around a little.
Not to go off on a tangent but does Medicaid pay for the home care and nursing home? Is it once their assets are exhausted?
Upstate NY and Medicaid application for one parent is $6 k.
Yea this is why I asked - I was prepared for 10-15k but 25 just seems wildddd
Definitely not because I asked. It doesn’t even include financial POAs - those are an additional 3k
Medicaid pays for nursing homes after a sick family member has run out of assets. A lot of people exploit one of the rules by essentially giving away all of their assets before needing the nursing home (i.e. gifting the assets to a family member or putting the money in an irrevocable trust). This (currently, maybe state-dependent) needs to be done 5 years prior to actually needing the nursing home. Medicaid will look back 5 years and say "well, they've been dirt poor for the past 5 years, we won't go after anything before that" and pick up the bill. 

The alternative is that Medicaid will take everything your family member owns as needed to pay for the nursing home. If you have a sick but durable family member in a nursing home, this means their entire retirement, life savings, and family inheritance will evaporate in a few years.

*I'm not a lawyer, but this is my understanding of how this works.
I think it can depend on the state. I am going through some of the same stuff with my parents. My mom currently has a VNA (Visiting Nurse Association) involved because she recently got out of rehab, and the social worker for the VNA has recommended that we put Mom on Medicaid. In Massachusetts, she must have no more than $2000 in a bank account/assets, but what we can do is put everything in Dad's name. Once she is Medicaid qualified, she can go into a nursing home, or get something called the Frail Elder Waiver to get in-home care suited to her needs, to keep her in the community. Either way, Medicaid pays for it.
Super weird. Avoid.
As another reference point, I just did financial POA and a change of trustee for $700 a couple of weeks ago with a firm specializing in elder care issues, and that was including a "rush fee" and the initial consultation -- we got the whole thing done in 4 days.

Rewriting the trust for Medicaid was estimated at $1,500-2,000. This was all for one person (mom).
That's nonsense.   When my husband and I did our wills and trusts, durable powers of attorney for health and money were included at no extra charge.

There are a lot of people in the world who rip off the elderly in one way or another; it would make sense to find a different lawyer.
Thanks. I was told switching assets has to be done years earlier or the government will take those as well.
It does depend on the state.  Federal Medicaid rules say that you must not have given any major gifts/transferred assets for less than value within the 5 years before applying, and so does every state except California.   If you do, your Medicare coverage will be penalized.   

https://www.payingforseniorcare.com/medicaid/look-back-period
