Is there an adult day center nearby? My grandma goes 3 days a week and loves it. It is essentially an adult day care with a nurse and staff. They offer activities and socialization and she has a blast. That may be something to look into if available in your area. Getting her out of the house and giving everyone a break.
My grandfather has lived with my parents for the entire time he's been in Canada. During lockdown his dementia got pretty bad, and he doesn't always recognize family members and always asks to go home. It was really frustrating because he already WAS home, and we tried all kinds of techniques (white lies, showing him his bedroom and familiar things in the room, etc) but sometimes even those didnt work.

He is now in long term care because we couldn't keep up with his needs (dementia plus frailty plus severe arthritis of the knees), and he still asks to go home. It's much more heartbreaking now but it's also tempered by the fact that even while he was at home he asked to go home.

This past (Canadian) Thanksgiving, our whole family was at home sitting and eating dinner at my parents house. It was a good time, everyone was happy and having fun and feeling loved, including my grandfather. After he finished eating he promptly asked to be dropped off at home if anyone was going that way. 

One thing I read about is asking to go home sometimes mean there is a discomfort or need that isn't being fulfilled where they are. They don't want to "go home" so much as they want to be more comfortable or feeling safe. It could just be they want to use the bathroom and they want to use the bathroom "at home", or a billion other reasons. It could be they just want to see their family and don't recognize family in the faces they are seeing, even if you're standing there in front of them. It might not have anything to actually do with going home. 

It's also good to keep in mind that because of dementia, they are not the best judge of what's best for them. It's hard but you have to also keep in mind, especially when they forget to eat or something else harmful to themselves, that they aren't capable of making good decisions for themselves. You might need to make a decision that they chafe against but is ultimately better for them.
My grandmother would have episodes of delirium, probably from low blood sugar from forgetting to eat, and would no longer recognize her apartment and try to go in search of her real home with her children 50 years ago. I do think it's ideal for those with dementia to live with family they can recognize when possible.
I am very sorry.  So difficult.  It sounds like you're doing a great job of caring for her.  She is at home with full time care.  That's the best anyone could ask for.  Sometimes, no matter what you do, they want to go home and home is where their Mom and Dad and siblings live.  Their Mom and Dad and siblings are long gone. So there is no going home.  The family they remember has passed on.  No matter where she lives, it won't be home.  It's heartbreaking, really.  I've tried the "white lie" technique as well and I get scolded and called a liar.  So I feel your pain.
Hey you mentioned that she can't work the locks on the door. Are they special locks?  My father's dementia is getting bad and we're trying to keep him from driving.   Now im thinking we could change the locks on the door into the garage. 

PS we already hide the keys but he finds them sometimes.
Maybe she would be open to moving into assisted living, if she is not happy where she is
>After he finished eating he promptly asked to be dropped off at home if anyone was going that way.

This part kills me.  I always feel like the biggest jerk then.  Your elderly relative politely asks for a ride "home" since you're driving.  Then you feel awful telling them no.  Because "home" no longer exists.
[deleted]
I bought a small safe for car keys and such. You could possibly put a keypad deadbolt into the garage. Driving with dementia is so dangerous and most auto insurance in the USA won’t cover an accident.
[deleted]
Yeah we began to realize she was forgetting to eat and most of these episodes where she thought she was someplace/sometime else ocurred when she may have skipped a meal.

When she was in the nursing home, which was not the best one, I once walked in to find her trying to climb out of bed. She thought she was at work (At least 25 years prior) and was upset she couldn't find her coworkers. I convinced her to lay back down and have some juice and a few cookies and within about 30 minutes she was back to normal.
Hey that safe is a great idea! Thanks!  I'm finding small $50 gun safes on Amazon that mount to the wall and have keypads to open them.  I'll mount that to the garage wall for the keys.  My mom will remember the code and my dad won't.  problem solved.
Unfortunately, what she wants may not be possible to give, if she can't be kept at home safely - and regular escape attempts constitute a potential safety issue. (My dad also couldn't figure out the locks 90% of the time - but the other 10% he just dashed right through the door and ran for the hills, typically at four in the morning. So their level of function can be unpredictable and kick into high gear when you least expect it.)

Other things you can do:

\- Sometimes I had luck with taking my dad out for a car ride, just around the block, then back. When we got back to the house that would often but not always trigger recognition of the house as HIS house and he'd be calmer.

\- It sounds like she's very anxious. That could be contributing to the 'I need to get home' fixation. Has she been put on any anti-anxiety meds? I've heard of people who have good luck with CBD, as well as various prescription meds for depression/anxiety.

I'm sorry. This kind of behavior is the worst part of dementia. I frequently think that we could have handled my dad's care at home if it were just changing, feeding, bathing, etc. It was all the nonstop crazy behavior on top of that that we couldn't safely handle.
Maybe have her live with family but retain the live-in carer?
Could she not live with family and have an aide?
[deleted]
My dad is in memory care due to wandering and violence. We couldn't safely care for him at home - no matter how much we locked the house down he'd still try and try to escape and sometimes succeed. And even if that weren't the case, he'd been attacking us, and we were all afraid that someone was going to get seriously hurt sooner or later.
My husband is headed towards memory care because he has fallen several times recently. I have tried to make our house safe but I can’t eliminate every single hazard. 

I decided to initiate the paperwork for MC. I have to get him a tuberculosis test. That way, it’s all in place just in case I need it.
[deleted]
In our case, it's a different type of facility. Because his dementia (Lewy Body) and his behavior (downright psychotic) are so difficult to manage, I wanted to make sure he was somewhere where they had the experience and training to deal with it. Plus, the facility is laid out for folks with dementia, so the bedrooms and bathrooms are set up a certain way, and the activities are all geared towards people with dementia, and so on. I found that even the nursing homes in my area with memory care wings just didn't specialize enough, and it felt like the memory care side didn't get a lot of attention compared to the rest. Maybe if my dad were one of those calmer, happier dementia patients without the psychosis and agitation, it would have worked, but with his symptoms? Nah. He needed specialists.
