Well, check her mattress. It's possible that she has lately become incontinent (if she has not been previously) and is either unaware of it; hiding it from shame; or trying to clean up after herself without being able to adequately.

Also check under the bed, in the closets, in chest-of-drawers and any other hidie-holes  for soiled linens or clothes that were hidden.
See if you can get a hold of a black light then use it in her room to locate where the urine is throughout the room.  Once you find the urine spots use an odor eliminating spray which is medical grade, in other words it eliminates the smell instead of masking it. Just google " medical grade odor eliminating spray". Good luck.
Lysol and ammonia will kill urine smell. I had to fumigate my father's entire apartment with this and he had to leave for 2 hours. You need to buy it bulk, have a pro do it, and they wear a respirator to really fumigate the place. At least that's what I had to do.
In my MILs place her anxious dog pees everywhere. It’s not the same as people pee, but it was getting bad enough you could smell it in the hallway outside her room. She doesn’t realize/notice and she doesn’t clean up the puddles soaking into the carpet. We clean when we see it, but we don’t always notice right away. An air purifier has helped a lot.
Someone mentioned the mattress…. I’m not sure how or if you can get urine smell out of a mattress, but if that’s where it is and you do get it out, make sure you buy a waterproof mattress pad to put on the bed going forward to prevent it from happening again.  Also I have had great luck getting vomit smells out of carpet and upholstery with a baking soda/water solution.  White vinegar is good too, but I think someone else already said that.  For my moms dog that has a bit of a leak, I mostly just use a lot of febreeze pet products. The spray is great and usually guests can’t even pick up the dog odor at all after Ive sprayed it.  Febreeze actually neutralizes smell instead of just masking it like most air fresheners do.
Get Natures Miracle urine and stain remover. They have different products for different issues. You can find it at pets stores and eBay. Also the laundry refresher beads really helped. 
About once a month I fill a mini crockpot with water, sliced oranges, cinnamon sticks and cloves. I run it for two days. It really helps with the smells.
You might also need chair pads if incontinence is the problem. They sell a variety of them (disposable and washable) and we use one on our couch in her favorite spot. It's really helped keep the furniture clean. 

Odorxit has worked well for us on getting things cleaner smelling. 
https://www.odorxit.com/

You might also need to change the sheets everyday. I've had to do that in our case. She would wet the bed and pull the covers up.
\-you'll get used to it (once I did, at the end, it took me months before I could smell stale urine anything like regular people can), visitors (esp. the Public health nurse) however, will be disturbed

\-it's probably past time for diligent use of adult diapers imo, else you'll never get a handle on the problem \[there are also 'sensors' that alert caregivers when a diaper needs changing\]

needless to say, waterproof mattress and chair pads are prudent investments
If she has carpet it probably needs cleaned.
I am convinced it gets into my brain and I can't shake the smell. I will visit my dad's room and then smell urine everywhere for hours after I leave. I don't know a solution to it.
Use a black light and this 

https://www.tmchemicals.co.uk/bio-digest-human-urine-odour-remover-117-p.asp?_=&variantid=120&gclid=EAIaIQobChMI3-3mraqO9AIViaztCh00Rw23EAQYASABEgIi7_D_BwE
I was considering getting an inline fan with a carbon filter... Like one of those 6 inch ones they use in pot gardens to keep the smell contained.
we had this problem and it turned out to be a yeast infection on her skin which requires anti fungal products

if you have carpet i would rip it out and replace with LVT or tile and cover the floor with washable rugs.

generous amount of white vinegar in the fabric softener slot in every load of laundry. run all the blankets and waterproofing pads regularly

opening the windows to let it air out helps, also helps you to more quickly identify the specific source
I noticed that with my Mom too!

I suggest giving the relative a daily chlorophyll capsule/gel. It’s also something I suggest everyone take because it diminishes/eliminates the scent of sweat and other body odors.  People with colostomy bags use them and they were even given away in Oscar nominees gift bags under the brand Body Mint. The ones I got though were just the store branded 90 caps for about $10 from Sprouts. 

As for the room, possibly put an ozone generator in that room and run it awhile?  Do NOT have the room occupied by any animals/people during this though!!!  They’re under $100 on Amazon. Maybe the smell is clinging to the walls just like cigarette smoke does?
With my dad when he was alive, we had to get the washable bed pads and the super absorbent disposable bed pads.  We also had the waterproof mattress covers.  Then a water proof blanket.  We also got him cranberry supplement pills to prevent urinary tract infection also reduced the urine odor during diaper changes.  

If they urinate on floors, floor runners, and walls. I would use germicidal bleach to kill the urine odor.  For carpet, I would use those scented carpet powders.
Those disks from Walgreens encased In plastic that absorb smells are amazing. Put them behind the couch, bed, recliner .  It will make a huge difference

And natures miracle from the pet store. It worked great in the car on a passenger seat. Would probably do wonders for the couch and bed

Also someone with a UTI leaks urine.  It also then smells way worse. Someone with dementia would never tell you UTI symptoms. If you find yourself needing to clean the toilet more- there is a UTI involved
Just adding on-
If the mattress I've had luck with this cleaner. If you can get it. 
https://www.clorox.com/products/clorox-urine-remover/
Yes.  Pee clothes (and sometimes her adult diapers) will end up under her bed, under her mattress, under her pillow, in her clean clothes drawers, behind her dresser ...
This is a great tip and the light I bought was the Vansky 51 LED Blacklight Pet Urine Detector for Dog/Cat Urine. It all works the same.
I did this when my dog was a puppy it helped find accidents. 

Renting or buying a carpet cleaner to shampoo mattress or any rugs or carpet in her room will likely go a long way. You can use an enzyme cleaner for pet accidents will help as well to break down compounds causing the smell. I use it in the carpet cleaner.
Can confirm Nature's Miracle works very well, at least the formulations for pet urine. I rescued and fostered dogs for many years and it never failed to fully remove odors from house-training accidents.
Use an enzyme cleaner on all soft surfaces and in the laundry. Most cleaners just mask the smell instead of actually cleaning all the particles. Odo-ban or anti icky-poo are great.
Or this 

https://www.tmchemicals.co.uk/bio-digest-human-urine-odour-remover-117-p.asp?_=&variantid=120&gclid=EAIaIQobChMI3-3mraqO9AIViaztCh00Rw23EAQYASABEgIi7_D_BwE
Thanks; I didn't have any specific products to offer.
