Do you think she understands moving back to Oregon doesn’t mean moving back to her old life? I just can’t imagine this would end too well. It sounds like she’s in a good situation now.
Maybe consider offering her some options for new facilities nearby? If she's really just dissatisfied with the current facility, see if there's a little shopping around you can do. Let her know it's a compromise but one you're happy to make, and see what she says. If she keeps hammering on about Oregon, that might confirm that it's about moving back "home" and not about her current facility so much. I think everyone with dementia goes through several phases like this, where they are aware they are homesick one way or another, but aren't quite putting the pieces together for themselves.

If she's really homesick, maybe you can help her out with a few items to make the facility feel more like home? Or take her on day trips that feel like home?
If she is in a memory care facility rather than an assisted living facility, it would seem she's lost significant abilities. I believe most all dementia victims go through a period of wanting to go home, even if they are home. This might be what she is experiencing. She's somehow envisioning stepping back into her life just being in the geographic area.

If she's in a memory care I assume she cannot get herself to doctor appointments and will need to rely on local services or you. That might work when you can schedule visits but as things progress you will need to be on call to some extent. 

Also, I think every move comes with great stress and anxiety for a person with dementia even if they are on board with it. My experience is that it can cause a drop in baseline ability.
I am not sure how many parents that are put in the memory care will be truly 'happy'... There are many existing folks in a memory care that are pretty far gone in ANY memory care where they are going to be babbling incessantly/screaming/harassing/stealing snacks, etc. My MIL was admitted to a memory care in Apr'21 and I spent a couple of afternoons with her visiting inside the facility.  There is no chance that anyone with modicum of cognition that can be happy in MC in my opinion (I don't visit her inside the facility any more, I only take her out to lunch to outside restaurants because I just can't stand to see 20-30 dementia folks milling about). 

See if you can delay it for 6 months to see if anything changes.

My MIL used to complain a lot, not so much any more....her cognition has not changed at all during the last 6 months.

Best of Luck to you!
I don’t think she would be happy anywhere. She wants her old life back, and with dementia that just will not happen. See if there are things she can be encouraged to do where she is, maybe having supported visits with similar residents, better access to the services the residence offers, some visitors from a local church or community group.

Also remember that any move is very hard on people with dementia. Without a familiar routine and a familiar setting they get quite lost for a long time. Really think about whether it is worth it.
The thing is, they don’t get to run their lives anymore, do what they want, and go where they want. Those days are over. My poor ma has one thousand things she wants to be out doing.

Give her some time, friend. She is grieving for her old life, quite understandably.
For somebody with increasing dementia, moving away from her social support is bad.   She's not going to be able to appreciate being in Oregon, because she won't be able to do the things she associates with her previous life in Oregon.  What your mom really wants is her old life back, and moving to Oregon is a symbol of that.

For myself, I would advise not moving her away from her sisters.   Most of the people I know with declining parents wound up eventually moving them to nursing homes near the children, because that way the children could visit regularly, keep an eye on things, take the parent out on car drives/trips, and be immediately available in a crisis.   All of these are more important to the daily comfort of your mother than living in Oregon would be.
I agree with the others that it doesn't make sense to move her further from her family support. She probably isn't going out on her own, so where she lives makes little difference.

Try to figure out what she is missing. Is it friends she used to see? Can you help with phone calls or letters? Put up photos of her friends?

Is it places she misses? My mom missed the trees when my parents moved from Long Island to Colorado (near me). When she was well enough to go out, we'd do scenic drives to places that were more reminiscent of the types of trees she missed. I also put up calendars with photos of the kinds of places she remembered.

Dementia is sneaky. My parents lived in regular assisted living and were both pretty sharp in a lot of ways. But at a certain point in their declines, both of them had short-term memory and reasoning ability losses, and it wasn't always easy for us to notice. I'm grateful that they moved when they did, so they didn't have to adjust to a new place when they were more easily confused.
I have to say, if the facility isn't a good fit I'd look for another one. Ive worked in the field for a long time and it is very distressing for residents to be around others who have progressed to where they fear they may be. In reality, it sounds like your mom shouldn't be on that floor in the first place.
I guess I need to ask her this question directly? It's the question I have had but been afraid to ask.
Good suggestions, thanks for the reply.
It wasn’t memory care, but we moved our folks to three different assisted living facilities before we found “The One”. They all seem to have a different “vibe”. The one they landed at was brand new, light, bright, airy, with very caring staff. I think it would be worth looking around.
Yes, being someone who is borderline assisted living/memory care is kind of a bad place to be.
My mom is in a good memory care facility, is at the stage of dementia where she has trouble carrying on a conversation, and appears to be very happy.   It's very expensive, which is probably why they can afford to provide individual care.   She was very unhappy in her previous facility, which was well-regarded, because there was no possibility of keeping other patients from wandering in and out of your room and taking things, and the food was bad.

So I guess I'm saying that there is good, supportive care out there *if* you got lucky in inheritances.  Which isn't most of us.
