You're already aware that every situation is different, but certain aspects are the same: they lose their capabilities. 

Try to make a list of 'thresholds' so that once that threshold is met, you know its time to move in with a new intervention. This will give you a chance to fall back on earlier planning, and you can ofcourse always choose to delay or expedite. It helps to see it as a lot of different area's where things can go wrong, so not being able to drive =/= no longer using the stove. Clinical assessment by a psychologist can help get the different area's on your horizon: planning and organisation, working memory, memory retrieval, abstract thinking etc. This can help you figure out what solutions might work too: a day planner can be a great tool, and a source of unrest depending on the person and the information it contains. 

It's important to remember to try and maintain their independence in a safe way. We had a client who could no longer live at home, but LOVED being outside and would escape any chance he got. The solution ended up being a GPS watch, and letting him roam the streets during the day. He can't take care of himself, nor will he find his way back, so he gets picked up around dinnertime for the night. It's unorthodox, but he trives on it. There are limits to how safe you can keep anyone. Quality of life is more important than quantity of life, especially once they've already grown old.
One thing that it took me far too long to learn was that I could refuse to condone my parents making poor decisions that I had to pay for.  Sometimes, you just have to be willing to look like an asshole.
My parents were 44 and 46 when they had me. My dad's 9th kid, my mom's only. The summer I graduated high school my mom was diagnosed with early onset AZ. 

It devastated me, she went from being my mom to my 3 year old little sister. 

She had a stroke about 4 years in, and couldn't talk for the last years of her life, which were in a care home. My dad, partially paralyzed from a stroke, visited her almost every day, for hours, feeding her lunch and supper. The only days he didn't were when he was sick. 

She's been gone 16 years, my dad 11, and I still dream about them 2-3 times a week. In my dreams she always has AZ, it's like my brain has erased what she was like before, which is too bad, she was an amazing, but not not perfect mother
In our situation it made sense for me to be caregiver because I was already not working due to my husband's job and being a mom. When my grandma started really progressing it just fell into the role of my kid becoming more independent and she was getting more dependent. She gave up a lot of things like driving and trying to use the phone on her own. 

Getting her on mood medication sooner might have helped but her outburst were pretty spread out. She was getting pretty angry and trying to fight over weird things. 

Sending her to adult day care has been amazing. She previously did a women's bible study and other church related functions. But as she declined they just became too much. And since she liked being social, being with just me wasn't cutting it. It also tends to wear her out so on her off days we do housework or have doctor appointments and she mainly naps on and off. We talked about having someone come in, but moving her from 2 to 3 days a week at the adult center seemed to make her happy. She would go Mon and Wed and when Friday came around she would be anxious if I wasn't taking her anywhere. The center was able to accommodate a 3rd day. It really has boosted her mood. 

I think our cut off for putting her in a home is too many falls and excessive attempts at wandering. Her past ones happened when she was convinced she needed to go somewhere and we were refusing to take her- in her mind anyway. Like she was convinced she needed to go to church but it was Monday not Sunday. But of course we have to balance the financial side too. We don't want to do it too soon and run out of money.
We decided to take the car after having one of the bank officials call us saying that mom had been there 2 times that day and she couldn't remember why she came in.  He also mentioned that she had been in 3 times the previous week.  He was concerned for her and wanted to follow up with the family.  So thankful for that guy.  He had a grandmother in the same condition and recognized what was happening. At the time, we knew she was starting be very forgetful, but had no idea she was driving all over town. 

I removed the starter relay and hoped she would call us if she couldn't start the car instead of calling a repair service. 

When discussing why she was going to the bank so often, she claimed she hadn't gone to the bank at all!  But then out of the blue, she said maybe it was time to give up her car.  Say no more, we took it and sold it and she was upset for a good long while.  We make sure to take her wherever she needs to go... And we spend time with her, so it is working out well now. 

Since then she has been diagnosed with late onset alzheimers.  She is getting steadily worse with shot term memory. 

She is currently in independent living facility and we are now at a point where we are considering taking over her finances because we are worried about scammers. (she can care for herself physically) She talks to almost everyone that calls and thinks she is sly by leading them on, but she gives info over the phone.  🤦🏼‍♀️ 

I don't know when we will move her to assisted living or memory care, but it will probably be within the year if she keeps progressing as quickly as she is. 

It is a sad, frustrating, and stressful journey.  She is really lucky to have children nearby who keep a close eye on her now.  We have no children, and I'm really wondering how we will get along when we get older.  If nothing else, this journey really gives a closer look at aging and what we need to do to prepare.  We have everything in place for our death, but nothing for living with dementia or any other debilitating disease.  I hope we have good neighbors to help us!
This is great. Everybody says our demented one shouldn't cook because of safety. But he hasn't burned himself, and someone goes every day in early evening to be sure the stove is off. He goes to bed early. His caregiver has fits at the things we "let him do," but he has to have some kind of self agency. Otherwise, what's the point?
She is fortunate to have you.  Both my parents are living and dad has dementia.  Mom is the de facto caregiver.  Right now I am more worried about her than him.  They need more breaks from each other.   I wonder about adult day programs for him.  My siblings and I provide help and respite as often as possible, but it's not enough right now.  One of the things I am unsure of is understanding what the cognitive milestones for when this would be appropriate for him.  He handles most of his grooming and has his routine to keep him occupied for now.  But Ultra short term memory is shot.  You know, when you're standing right there asking them to do something, and it's as if they don't hear OR comprehend.
My not-demented but nearly blind grandparent gets in home care. The carer tried to warn me that 'she still cooks sometimes!'. Well, duh! She's sometimes heating up soup for lunch, you really want me to take that away from her? Again, she's still 100% all there.

It's a fight to get people to talk to her about stuff, instead of immediately bypassing her. At work we've got nurses who tell their clients that they need to eat their veggies, even when they are vocal about not liking those, and an alternative being very available (the groups cook different meals, so plates can get swapped any day. They are literally 20 meters away, in the same floor). It's a whole thing. Preserving agency when possible is so important.
I know in our case the day center has great staff and lots of programs. Some are for people who haven't progressed as far and others are easy for people who have trouble following directions. They also offer puzzles and reading areas. So if they don't want to participate in a particular activity, they can settle in and do something different if capable. 

Comprehension decline is hard. My grandma would unload the dishwasher. Now she can handle putting up the plates and bowls. That is about it at this point. Sometimes she would start unloading it and just walk off with the dishwasher open. Honestly the day center has been the best outlet. Plus it gives me time to do things like errands or my own appointments without having to bring her and worry. Covid restrictions may differ in your region, but our center gives tours after it is closed and requires mask and vaccination. It's really been fantastic.
It outrages me every time I interact with the "caregiver." He takes vitamin/mineral supplements daily, on his own, and we don't care if he forgets. But OMG she took that over, put them in the same box as the Rx meds, he's confused, she tries to make him take them with his Rxes *but he took them already on his own*.
20 meters is 21.87 yards
Infantilizing. Making them an object and not the subject of their own lives. And I'm appalled this isn't taught; or the work doesn't attract people with fundamental empathy.
