If you can't find it in yourself to say no without causing agitation, create/plan another event he should attend. This could stop him from leaving without making him feel like a child asking permission. I assume there are kids in the family, celebrate a kid's achievement those days. Achievement doesn't have to be real or recent, just a means to prevent your father from traveling.
Does he want to stay in a hotel? You could say they are all booked up with a big convention.
[deleted]
This is where living in a place with a harsh climate and crappy winter highways comes in handy.  When the people I care for are exit seeking I use that as a deterrent. "Didn't you see the news? The highways are closed! How about we have a coffee and wait until the storm clears and the plow has gone through".  That or I try to convince them that I just plugged their car in and that it needs more time otherwise it will be too cold to start". Perhaps depending on where you live you can predict some "adverse weather" and advise against travel too. You could even google and print out an old weather warning to show him (just make sure the date isn't visible).
I’d ask him some questions about what he wants to do in the city. Did he used to visit friends/family/work there? Why does he want to be alone? This may give you a clue about him being uncomfortable with something or missing someone who was there. If this doesn’t work, you can tell him you tried to get him a hotel in the city, but no rooms are available. Little lies feel awkward, but can be sanity savers to us caregivers
https://share.icloud.com/photos/0UF3m__yeIkpMdWxEdEm9l10w

This is my lunatic alcoholic gold digging step mom. My dad has had dementia for about 5 years. She has stopped bringing him to the dr. She lets him drink all day   She has made herself the sole beneficiary of all my dad assets. She has taken us off the will. She won’t let anyone in his family see him. My uncle and I would like to know what needs to be done to get her gone. And make one of us power of attorney. We have a ridiculous amount of evidence against her. We’re worried if we take Legal action. She will go nuts blow even more Money that should be going to his care. Also worried it will get dragged out so long we won’t be able to see him until it’s to late
Thanks. That is something I had not thought. I really appreciate the advice.
Ooh, good idea!  Thanks!
I have been stopping him from contacting her by blaming the bank that she used to try stealing his money. I think I can blame Adult Protective Services, since they placed him with me.
This is a wonderful suggestion. My mother was blaming Obama for everything anyway -- I think this will absolutely work for her.
I eavesdropped on him today. He wants to meet a woman that he knew. Neither of them have ever been in the city they want to meetup in. She is the person that robbed him of all his money and stuff, which led to him being with me. She is promising him something, I don’t know what. I have to tell him no.
I'm not sure if this is ethically okay or no, but tbh this is the only way I can deal with my grandpa. He is a really stubborn and independent man. Sometimes he wants to go walking in the middle of the day under the summer sun. Only way I can stop him is saying "I need help with _some indoor activity_/let me finish my _task_, so we can go together". If I say "no it's dangerous" he'll get mad at me and leave anyway.
[deleted]
As someone else mentioned, pick a thing to blame. “The roads are all closed due to construction.”
Ugh. If he has a dementia diagnosis from his physician, it may be time to look into a restraining order against her, especially if you can prove she took advantage of a mentally incompetent person. In the meantime, you might try telling him that it’s too risky to travel right now.
Why would you say that is unethical? You are redirecting him and that is a very good and useful tactic. You lie to and for the disease.
There is nothing unethical in preventing a dangerous activity or situation. Whatever distraction you may invent. That bad thing is, such ideas are so permanent, so dominant in the unwell brain, that you will have to be very creative.
Figure out why he wants to go there, and bring the city to him. If it were Philadelphia you could make Philly cheesesteaks, etc :)
I see this as being untruthful or conning him. It is for his benefit, true; however, still I am intentionally misleading him. Ever since the roles got reversed and I had to become the parent/grandparent I started judging myself a lot in my actions towards him. Mostly the ones that limit his freedom, since I know my intention is good but I don't know how he actually feels about the situation.
Actually I can use the same thing many times. Repetition does not bother him. Mostly because I was studying online, I could use the "after I finish my homework" or "after this class ends" every day. When classes ended I just used any kitchen or garden related activity since they are usually daily tasks.
I can understand that. I am sure if you think about it your grandpa probably "lied" to you when you were  child for your own good, in much the same way.  


An extreme example to illustrate my point:  
If someone with dementia doesn't remember their loved one has passed away, why would you remind them they have? You are forcing a person with already diminished capacity to relive the trauma of that loss over again. Instead you tell them they left and will be back eventually to placate them.  


A lot of times they ask for things but it isn't really want they want. My dad went through a phase were he would constantly ask me when could we "go home?" while in the house he had lived for 30 years. It took me a LONG time to figure out he was actually telling me the room we were sitting in looked different than he was remembering (it was a room my parents had remodeled 3-4 years prior to us knowing he was sick).

Again, I do want to commend you on being able to redirect him. Asking for help like you mentioned in your example was one of the most effective tactics with my father. 

We would create "chores" for him that he could do and we didn't care if it was done or not. Like folding laundry. We didn't care how well he folded it and 10 minutes or an hour after he finished we would fill the basket with the same clothes and ... "Oh look! More laundry to fold. Can you help me with this?"
