i work in dementia. i have worked in two different care homes that run very differently. what i have found is that dramatic change will completely alter the mindset of the person. for example, in home no.1, if someone was to have a bad fall and end up in hospital, upon coming back into the home they would have 1 to 1 care 24/7 for 2 weeks, and would soon return to theyre normal dementia self (how us carers are used to them), no matter how long they were hospitalised . however, in home no.2 someone had a nasty fall, ended up in hospital. this lady was so so quiet before. so sweet, only 4”3 and all she would say rly is “hello darling, how are you” , “can i have a cup of tea?” and “i want to go home” by default. if u sat and spoke to her properly, she would talk very lucidly about her home town and her parents, she knew she was elderly and knew she was ill. she was pretty with it all in all. however this home does not implement 1 to 1 care after hospital. she is now completely coocoo. i worked with her today and she screams blue murder, she calls you a bitch, she drools. shes a different person. keeping routine is very important in dementia, and if routine is broken, it is essential that the person is supported 24/7. im afraid however, dementia literally is defined as “the brain dying”. it will shrink and shrink until the person is basically back into a childlike state. unfortunately there is no cure yet or medication to slow it. it is down to the care the sufferer receives. if u have any questions please feel free to dm me. i work with dementia every day, and i have had dementia training, along with having family members suffer from it. i am happy to support you through this difficult time. i hope this helped
There’s really no telling how long she can live on her own. Some people decline sooner than others. It would be great if she could get medical attention and a diagnosis. There are some medications that can slow the progression. She can also try exercise and other activities to stimulate her brain.
May be a silly question based on some of your post history, but has she had her hearing checked? My fathers hearing was messed up and it affected him in the same ways your aunt is. 
Can’t remember things you never heard the info for. If you hear the question wrong then you’re going to answer randomly. The brain can only work so hard to try and guess the missing pieces and if what pieces you have are wrong to begin with, then it makes it worst.
The continued hardship of not being able to hear correctly can make them become more and more reclusive as it’s “too hard” to keep conversations going and people around them may become less inclined to talk to you because it doesn’t work.
In regards to some of your posts in the past… it really is a shame that hearing aids are not as widely available/covered. :( 
I’m a firm believer that if hearing loss is something you’re suffering from (not *you* but people in general) and it isn’t corrected/correctable later in life your brain just can’t keep up with the change. With that said, my father does remarkably better mentally having hearing aids. Normally his hearing aid place scheduled for cleanings every three months, but I move it to two months regularly as I can tell he gets more and more fuzzy/less sharp as they don’t perform in tip top shape. 

Something to look into just in-case. :) If it is an issue it may help in the areas you’re describing. And who knows! Maybe being a part of the conversation to make a decision for safer living arrangements like assisted living or other arrangements where more friends can reach out.
I am very sorry to hear about you auntie. It sounds like you should make new living arrangements for her soon.

Very often, it's people close to the person who help with the diagnosis. I don't know where you are located, but you can get either in touch with a memory clinic and neurologist, or with one of the dementia charities, to ask for advice.

It is impossible to predict dementia progression with any satisfying degree of certainty, and unfortunately, nothing can halt it. Based on the research, social activities can be as good as medication. If she find it difficult to maintain friendships, most communities have dementia cafes she can join. Don't think of activities as "brain training" - she should things that she enjoys or finds rewarding.

Apart from that, you can see how she can pursue a more healthy diet. Optimally, she shouldn't smoke or drink, though one should make sure that lifestyle changes don't come with a too great cost to quality of life. Good sleep is also very important.

With a diagnosis, you can try out medication. These tend to have a small positive effect on dementia, but unpleasant side effects.
I found sub-lingual B12 (methyl-cobalamin tablets) helped my mom a fair bit (1/day, 1000 mcg \[1 mg\]).  Next blood test push for her B12 level being checked (aim for 'high normal').
I'm sorry for her. Do some research, there are ideas that Alzheimer's is a form of diabetes of the brain and since brain is not getting glucose you can supplement with ketones in the form coconut oil or it's extract, MCT oil to keep the brain supplied with energy.

Also since the brain gets some sort of inflammation by not been able to properly clean itself during sleep instead of taking stuff to sleep you can use CBD to lower inflammation and reduce anxiety levels that don't help to get a good night sleep.

Good luck.
Thanks,  I'm concerned bc she just went to the Dr and doesn't sound like he mentioned anything to her. She's not my mom so I don't know how much I can insert myself in the conversation. Her daughter is so far away I don't know how she can really help either.
from my experience, the medication that slows it really just zombifies the person. it it very sad to see. it slows the progression in the eyes of the carers but really the disease is progressing at the same rate, the symptoms just become less visible
Thank you, that's a good question I'll have to ask her about.
Interesting. Actually diabetes runs in the family and she has lost a lot of weight recently  without trying to/doesn't know why. Will need to look into this too. Thanks
I am sure you want to help, but please take it from someone involved in dementia research that there is no scientific evidence for the efficacy of coconut oil or ketogenic diets. Use coconut oil if you want, but please keep in mind that it is not considered a very healthy oil because of high levels of saturated fats which can lead to high cholesterol (which increases hart attack and stroke risk). High cholesterol has also been linked with dementia risk.

There's much evidence showing that CBD can be useful in cases of insomnia and anxiety.
could simply be forgetting to eat. very common in what i see day to day. some residents complain that they havent been fed for hours even tho they have, and others will refuse to eat, claiming theyve just had dinner, even if its 9am
Sadly I know there is not much research,  just have my own experience dealing with my mother in law to go on and what I learned from Dr Newport. That's why I started with do research.

Coconut oil in my case ended up doing a lot of good. I kept records on her blood levels, I still remember a doctor was going to complain on her high bad colesterol until saw the good one, then he was mix on his reply. People in the Pacific Islands on coconut diet would not agree with you.

But again I can't proof anything besides my personal observations I got over 8 months of dealing with my mother in law.
Sorry to be so pedantic, but the link between coconuts and cholesterol levels has been demonstrated again and again and again in very well carried-out studies, including on populations in the Pacific, where higher coconut consumption has been associated with higher cholesterol levels.

I am not saying that people shouldn't eat coconuts or use coconut oil (though many oils are much better for your health, such as rapeseed oil), It's just that there is a lot of misinformation and myth around coconut oil.
I'm not going to argue, it worked in my situation so I'll leave it at that. I like to study and read on things before doing anything specially since it involved my wife's mother.
