Occupational therapist here. It would be appropriate to talk to your dad‘s doctor about an order for home health physical, occupational, and speech therapy. This should be covered by your dad‘s insurance and cost nothing. These different therapy visit can be very useful in training and education for both you and your dad regarding self-care, balance and ambulation, set up of the home to increase safety, and just basic strategies to help care for your dad. I also recommend looking up an occupational therapist on YouTube named Teepa Snow in the meantime. She has wonderful videos on strategies to help care for loved ones with dementia, although she does not get specifically into Louis body, I think the information would still be valuable to you. 

Additionally, I am glad you have a doctors appointment soon, because any sudden change in mentation or behavior could point to an underlying medical condition such as infection, So it would be beneficial to get him checked out ASAP.
You need to get hospice involved ASAP.  Your Dad does not need any treatment right now, he needs comfort care.  Hospice will come in and evaluate him so you have a better idea of what is happening. Please don't wait, do this right away so he can be comfortable and you can go forward knowing you have done the best for him.
Dr. here. I would strongly consider getting hospice involved.
I am also very appreciative of your post. Thank you for taking the time to response. OP, I don’t think I have great guidance for you as I am not in the medical profession; however, my father was also diagnosed with LBD and I empathize with your challenges. My heart goes out to you and your family.
Thank you so much for this speedy response! I just have so much anxiety about the whole situation. When his symptoms first occured the other other day I took him to the ER and they said he didn't have a UTI or chest infection, which was my initial instinct as well. They blamed it on a spike in blood pressure, so I'm hoping to get his medications resolved with this visit and discuss strategies. I'll definitely look into nursing, speech, and occupational therapy for sure. I'll definitely look into Teepa Snow, any strategies provided would be extremely helpful.
Yes, this.  It will provide him with appropriate end-of-life care and it will provide you with the comfort of knowing he is getting what he needs from good, caring people who do this for a living.
Happy to help. I apologize for my typos-I was using dictation on my phone.  
“Lewy Body” lol.
