I do not have experience with LBD but my mother had a severe weight decline along with a dementia diagnosis.  After months of trying everything, including moving her to memory care where we thought 3 meals daily with others would help (it didn’t), her doctor suggested hospice placement.

That is something that should be brought up with your father in law’s doctors.  Hospice has been wonderful for comfort care, more ways of treating pain and they would also help with bathing your father in law.
"Failure to thrive" is a pretty broad and often unhelpful diagnosis. It's an indication that a person is headed downhill because of observed (and obvious) loss of mobility/functional ability/weight/etc. These deficits can lead to a downward spiral which is why the prognosis seems grim if you look across the whole population. However, it does not necessarily mean that your dad is in imminent danger.

For comparison, my mom had a stroke, lost 60 pounds of weight in 6 months, developed dementia, and has been bedbound since. Doctors gave the same failure to thrive diagnosis but she stabilized right around 140 lbs ("average" weight for her height). They kept insisting on putting her on hospice even though she has maintained that weight for about 4 months now. Some days she eats non-stop, other days she sleeps through her meals. She has similar bouts of spontaneous recovery and spontaneous decline. This is not LBD specifically, but from what I've read, it seems common to observe many of these issues across dementia and other forms of brain damage.

Depending on the progression of his condition, hospice might be the right answer. At the same time, it's possible he might rebound for a period of time, but the trend overall is towards a worse condition. Day-to-day or week-to-week it can seem like a rollercoaster, and nobody can predict what will happen. I've found planning for the future, even a few weeks out, to be extremely distressing and futile, so I just take it one day at a time. I would not get too caught up on the diagnosis and just focus on making sure he is taken care of, and that you have some broad options available (like hospice) if the situation does worsen.
Hi,

I have experience with LBD, my mother in law has LBD as well as Vascular Dementia. Her bone density is very low.  She fell in July 2019, and since then she became bed ridden.  She was placed in Palliative care when she complained that she couldn't walk anymore.  

My mother in law was in Palliative care for about 6 months.  She never walked again but pandemic started and we were told if she gets worse than to call back.  She stayed bedridden, her speech became slurred and hardly any movement.  My husband changed her linens, diaper, fed her etc.  

Call her doctor, give them as much detail as you can.  Ask about getting your father in law assessed for Palliative.  They may end up placing him in hospice depending on what they find.   

If you have any questions let me know.  You can message me and I will be more than happy to assist in any way I can.  Take care!
No idea what POT stands for and I am a geriatric social worker. Do you mean POA? It sounds like your family member’s disease is progressing. A hospice referral may be appropriate; talk with his primary care doctor.
Maybe reach out to Adult Protective Services I regards to POA keeping the Social Security payments.   That money should go towards care.  Ugh,  I'm so sorry.
Thank you so much for your reply! 

He was in home hospice care for about six months where nurses came to check his vitals, weight, bathe, and music therapy but he was ‘graduated’ from the program because he showed signs of thriving and that was amazing..

About two months after the ‘graduation’ he is almost exactly to where he was this time last year.. 

Im sorry for rambling aimlessly but I am
at a complete loss of what to expect, besides the worst..

The nurse who comes here now told me to just keep doing what we are doing because the high protein liquid diet (he cannot swallow solids without coughing them up) is maintaining his weight..

I’m just lost and my husband lost his mother when he was twelve so he is very sensitive and I don’t want to be morbid about the situation… 

Again, thank you so much for your response and sorry for being scattered.. lol.
Thank you for that! 

I honestly thought that it was an ‘easy diagnosis’ for doctors who are not specialized in geriatrics..

‘Group it all together and nobody is culpable’….
Oops! I did mean POA! There was a lot going on this morning and for some reason POT sounded correct at the time..

I would get in contact with his primary but I don’t have any control over Dr visits.. 

Pops lives in the house with us and we are his caregivers.. His other son, who is the POA, is basically AWOL and collects the social security but never shows up to give breaks or contribute to Pops’ nutritional needs..

I am here 24/7 taking care of him and homeschooling my daughter and my husband works 72 hrs a week to keep the household up..

I don’t know what to do to help the situation for Pops and for us.. The average time that I get to leave the house is every 30 days..
You can always apply for hospice again. People's conditions change. That would be my first steo
My grandad did not have dementia but he was on hospice and then off. He returned to hospice after maybe a year of stabilization and then passed. It is not uncommon to be on it and then removed. But you sound like you are caring for him in the best possible manner with all the uncertainty. 

Unfortunately end of life care is not always a straight line and can be very stressful on all involved. You sound like you are handling it well as you can though.
These are never easy questions to ask.  I've been struggling with them myself- my mom is improving in hospice or at least she isn't losing any  more weight so, like you,  I wonder, what is next and will my mom be dropped from the hospice program that is working so well, just as you have experienced.

It's so hard if your husband lost another parent when he was so young and it's awful and awkward to ask "how much time do you think they have left?".   But it's also easier to prepare if you know what is coming, and when.
Than you for your reply! I will definitely look into that! Hugs!!
Thank you so much for your kind words!
I am so sorry for responding so late! I hope all is well!! There has been a lot going on..

I hope the best and I have been successful with weight gain/protein by using whole milk and Walmart brand whey protein powder shakes.. 

It adds fat and protein.. just be weary, too much protein without enough clear liquids between can lead to constipation or de-empactment..
Thank you for the good suggestion.   I hadn't thought about the protein powder shakes.

My mom just eats such tiny amounts now- we were trying to give her high calorie drinks, ice cream, etc.   One or two bites or a sip, and she's done.   But the positive news is, she's not unhappy.  I'm thankful for hospice for helping with that.
