I’m so sorry for you both. It’s a hard road ahead but there will be beautiful times among it. My dad has vascular dementia and is quite far on the journey. These are some of the things I’ve learnt. Hopefully some of them are helpful.

Driving may become dangerous. My dad would drive on the wrong side of the road and swear he was on the correct side before we had his license taken away. 

She may not forget who you are. It’s the short term memory that will go and it isn’t consistent, so you can’t assume what she does and doesn’t retain. Prepare for circular conversations - just when you think they understand something, you’re back at square one. 

Anger and paranoia is part of it. I remind myself that when Dad is accusing me or my mum of something - usually abandoning him to take all his money - it’s because he is scared that will happen, and reassurance that we love him is needed.

Get support. Use any aged care systems you can. You will lose days of your life to wrangling the system but it’s worth figuring it out. Also, find a dementia support group for both of you. 

Get power of attorney and advanced care directives in place asap. If possible, start managing all the bills and finances. Go to the bank with your mum and set up access to her accounts. At the very least, you can check statements to make sure she’s not spending weirdly. 

Write down or video stories of her life. Capture her favourite memories. Do some things she loves while she still can. 

Watch videos about talking to people with dementia. The tips will be useful. 

Enjoy all the bright moments. Don’t beat yourself up about the hard ones. Make sure you look after yourself and don’t feel guilty if you need to reduce contact sometimes. Sometimes you need to practice compassion from a distance, and be compassionate with yourself. 

I’m sure there’s more but that’s off the top of my head.
My very independent mother also lived on her own since my father passed away. She was diagnosed with vascular dementia 

It was only when things fell apart (a trip to the hospital for general pain) that I learnt her life was a huge mess.

Get involved now while she is early stage and cooperative. Have those hard conversations like who has POA or whatever is the equivalent in the UK. 
See a elder lawyer to ensure you’ve covered everything now.

Protect your mother now rather than fight for her rights later. The worst thing for me was not having any legal standing to protect my mother and having to go through the courts to get the orders. It was awful.

There is so much to think about but try to not overwhelm yourself. Simply educate yourself on dementia and your countries elder laws. 

Dementia is individual -  everyone has a different path with shared experiences. You could have the best years with your mother starting now.

Go and give her a big hug and say ‘we will get there one step at a time’
Vascular dementia is known for stair-stepping. Instead of a gradual decline, she may have a sudden step down that is very visible. The "but she was fine yesterday" feeling is particularly hard.
Hi Salty_Ad,
My mother has been living for a few years by herself and nobody knew she has mixed dementia, until she was found all alone and confused (with heaps of cash) in a shopping mall down in NT. There and then she was picked up in an ambulance and taken to the nearest hospital where she awaited for a place in an aged care facility. She never returned to what she felt as home. Living continent away from her and with the borders closed, POA and caretaking is shared between myself, the Public Guardian and Public Trustee. Twice a week I talk to her and I notice her changes that sure were there before, like talking in circular, aggression, apathy and delusions. I second the idea of not allowing her to drive. And finding an aged care clinic where she could, at first be taken for a few hours a day, until her final placement. Look for a doctor specialising in gerontology. Find activities she may participate like music, gardening, pottery, etc..
It's going to be a roller coaster type of life..if you need to talk, this group is awesome..
I would see if she’ll agree to signing power of attorney papers or whatever the UK equivalent is now…it’s much harder as the disease progresses. In early stages it’s much clearer to them why it’s necessary and they can still see the sense of it. It makes it so much easier to help manage dr visits, finances etc. on their behalf as time goes on. 
I would also suggest using an Amazon echo or equivalent to set reminders as to when to take medication. When my husband was first diagnosed he insisted on handling his own meds and for a while he was ok. Then his behavior changed and he was much more combative..I found he had not been taking his meds like he thought he was…he thought he took them but was remembering the days or week before. Having Alexa remind him is neutral and not me “nagging” it also resolves the whole fight of “ I already did that” It’s the push he needs to ensure he’s taking meds.
Thanks all.

I already have power of attorney for her finances, we got that sorted out not long after my dad died…. And I already do her bills etc.

she is just adamant she doesn’t ever want to leave her home, and I just know down the line she will have to. I’m completely dreading all the hard decisions I’m going to have to make.

ive not heard of the stair stepping decline… that’s interesting because she does go down hill in spurts. Friends she meets on holiday every year noticed a big difference from one year to another.

she has also developed a kind of tic… she repeatedly sniffs… she’s totally unaware.. is this common? It’s been going on nearly a year.

repeating herself is another thing she does. She tells me the same thing several times a day for months on end. I’ve learnt now just to pretend it’s the first time I’m hearing it.!
Has your Mum informed the DVLA about her diabetes and her vascular dementia diagnosis? Or her insurance company? The DVLA have to be notified about both conditions.  They may decide to review her driving abilities and if necessary withdraw her driving licence.
Just reviewed my comment, its the first time I have ever said something here, it sounds abrupt and I apologise. You are under a lot of pressure at the moment and I should have worded my response more tactfully. My FIL suffered from Glaucoma and was adamant that unless his Consultant told him to tell the DVLA he wasn’t going to do it himself. In the end we intercepted his licence renewal and informed them of his diagnosis. They reviewed his medical records and eventually renewed his licence anyway. We just didn’t want him to hurt someone if his vision was impaired. The DVLA website is very helpful.
I am so sorry your mom and you joined the dementia club. The disease is cruel to everyone. My mom has vascular dementia with delusions. She lives with my dad in 20 min drive from me, both are in their early 80s. While your mom still lives alone and is not constantly supervised by a caregiver, may I suggest some solutions that work for me or should have worked :(
1. Have several wifi cameras installed. Two way audio  is a great feature, but it may confuse your mom when your voice sounds from a wall. This will help you to check her when she is not answering the phone or you want to know she is fine without disturbing her. Sometimes cameras help me to locate 'stolen' stuff.
 2. Smart wifi enabled pill dispenser to manage medication regime. You will need someone's help to set it up and fill the pills if you cannot do it yourself. Mine has slots for up to 28 days. I don't need this, as I visit almost daily, but not always at the pill time. So far I am satisfied. There are smart pill dispensers without wifi, but I am glad I did not go for a cheaper model. I had a simple 4 by 7 pill box and has been managing the regime over the phone for 2 years until I accidentally caught my mom taking her evening pills twice the same day. Another use for the camera!
3. Wearable tracking devices sound very nice, but they need frequent recharging or batteries replacements. And are easily removed and lost. I got my mom a non-removable bracelet with her name and my number engraved on its plate. She had been wearing it for about a month before she managed to remove it and hide in some cozy place. You never know when the next step down happens and they go out to search for their 'real' home and are lost.
start thinking about residential care asap.  sadly it WILL be necessary.
Thanks for the advice!
Thankyou.
This is so true!
I’m sorry, that sounds like it has been really tough going. It’s such a worry!
No need to apologise, it didn’t sound abrupt to me.

we will phone her insurance and dvla this week. She was only diagnosed Friday, so we are just getting our heads around it. Hopefully they won’t take her license off her just yet. I feel that she is still competent enough to drive. If she was to take another dip, I’m not so sure.
I forgot to add about cameras. If a helper or caregiver visits the house, they must be informed about the cameras to avoid a possible legal action. Also, a cloud storage subscription usually offered by camera manufacturers is better than the flash cards I use now.
Thanks 

ld not thought of cameras, that’s a really good idea.
It's heartbreaking..
Wishing you the best of luck for the future .
Cameras are a must when employing caregivers at home.  Don’t be shocked to find most are on cell phone instead of engaging your loved one.  It’s a long road ahead.  I’m near the end and I feel like it just started. Very emotional to watch.  Stay strong and God bless❤️
I don't know if it has been suggested..when my mother was diagnoses with mixed dementia, I literally poured myself in every MOOCs courses available, plus reading and subscribing to every alz/dementia group. I even put up a dementia youtube channel where I try to share my researches to anybody needing / caring for someone with dementia. I hope these help you
What is your YouTube channel?
https://youtu.be/3D3gZC0wL98
How are you?
