I'm very sorry your family is experiencing this. Unfortunately, there is very little speaking to him will do to help the situation. Your mother will be upset but in the end it will be easier for her to accept it and adapt, than to try and get him to stop.
I'm sorry this is happening. 

No, do not talk to him. He won't understand what you're telling him, or remember not to do it in the future. He's genuinely not capable of understanding that this is 'inappropriate behavior'. Work on helping your mom understand that this is a normal behavior for a dementia patient, and not a sign that he doesn't love your mom. There are just moment where he doesn't remember that he's married. Honestly, he may be so disoriented that he believes it's your mom sitting next to him! Or he may just be lonely, scared, and looking for platonic comfort.

I know this is heartbreaking for your mom, but as the cognitively-stable person, she needs to deal with her grief without blaming him for something he can't control. If she isn't seeing a counselor or attending a support group yet, encourage her to do that. I'm sure it will be helpful. Best wishes.
I’m sorry, this must be so difficult. 

I’ve heard this type of behavior explained in this way. 
He still does love your mom; he loves his wife, it’s just that also in his mind, on days when he is holding hands with another, his mind has regressed to the point that he hasn’t “met” your mom yet.
Perhaps you could inform your mom that having dementia mean that your father has delusions/delirium/hallucinations and may well live in a fantasy world. Try to sweeten the information, let her know dementia is making your dad lives in a unreal world..happens to my mother all the time
As with the disease , this could pass in the coming days or weeks 
One day I could talk with my mom on the phone , the last few days she keeps misplacing the phone, Today she has the phone back and does know she missed speaking with me
Thank you all so much for the advice. This is all relatively new to me, and it’s helpful to hear your thoughts. It’s very painful to lose someone slowly like this and I appreciate the support. I hope my mom will agree to go to counseling and learn to not fight with him about things like this.
That’s way more wholesome and sweet than I expected from the title. He doesn’t mean anything against your mom I’m sure. I think it’s nice that he has a pal where he is. If it’s bothersome to the woman whose hand he likes to hold then that would be an issue but if not I think it’s okay. It might be his way of connecting to someone in an easier way than talking and stuff. It might be giving them both comfort during a frightening time.
It’s ok find peace
“My mother has not accepted that Dementia has changed him”…. This is the problem. Your mother seems to be in denial. Until she accepts that he is suffering from a debilitating progressive disease and that his actions should not be taken personally, she will only be hurt. As someone who works with Dementia patients, I see this often. Dementia robs you of your loved one. He is no longer the man she married. I’m sorry.
Yep... I've seen this happen as well. Dad's been married to my mom for 30 years. Had married another woman previously. But his memory is at a point where he's infatuated with his middle school girlfriend and he only occasionally remembers the more recent women. 

She's been married for decades herself and has grandkids of her own and probably doesn't think of my dad at all, but she's all he can think of. Sad to see. Can always see the hurt in mom's eyes when he mentions that other woman.
The same goes with my mother. I sent her a rosary she requested and she wears it around her neck..She keeps misplacing it and with her condition, she doesn't remember she hid it under her pillow..and the drama begins..
***Talking to your father will not help. However, unless you want your mother to catch him doing this, you do need to speak to her. It sounds like the facility has been dealing with your mothers denial and want to avoid problems with her. Which is unfortunate that there’s a breakdown in communication with her. It’s very understandable though. I’m having difficulty accepting my mother has early onset Dementia and I’ve worked in the field for the past 10years.
exactly this with my mum...but that time is past for her now..
