Just let him talk to you, and humor him. He will be happy to socialize with someone that seems interested. As dementia progresses the oldest memories are the latest to go. He will likely have stories to tell you about his younger days. He might be very repetitive or ask you the same questions, or just be obviously out of touch with reality. Just play along and let him feel a moment of connection. Sweet of you to think of him.
Ask him about his youth or holiday traditions he likes.
If you have an old family photo album,it would be great to page through it with him. He might not remember everyone in the pictures, but it might spark some stories.
Did you play in the snow/ go to church/ ride bikes/ like macaroni/ go to a dance/ have a car/ like dogs when you were a kid?  Did your house  have a fireplace? What kind of cookies did you like? 

Honestly, we just ramble and try to bring up stuff Grandma might latch onto or which might jog some memory or start a story.
You could try asking him open ended questions about Christmas - do you like Christmas? Or you could read him a Christmas story and then talk about it afterwards.
It's very sweet of you to put so much thought into connecting with him! The suggestions already made are good ones. Maybe ask him about what he did with his siblings through the years, and give him time to decide what to say. Sometimes people are just processing responses when we think they're not going to answer. Enjoy your time with him.
It may be uncomfortable or sound silly but I encourage you to sing together, if there are other family get them to sing too. well known christmas songs or hymns if he is religious. This gives your grandad a way to engage, and often after music a person with dementia is a lot more lucid. It's not a guarantee, but it often helps.
I would stay away from asking him questions - it can be frustrating for them when they are unable to answer the question.

I think you could absolutely talk to him about your life and the dinner.  

You might also consider reading to him.  You could google good news and find happy options to talk with him about.  You could also play him music on your phone.  Or show him funny videos on your phone.  Or maybe old Christmas movie clips, like Charlie Brown Christmas.
Thanks for your comment, I appreciate it. Unfortunately he seems to struggle initiating conversation. He used to be very extroverted, but now doesn’t seem to know what to say. However if we initiate a conversation he can talk away fine. Any ideas? ☺️
Thank you! I’ll definitely ask about holiday traditions for him as a kid.
Yes I actually plan to make a memory scrapbook for his Christmas! When I was younger, before the onset of his dementia, I made him a similar scrapbook and he found it very touching so I hope he will like this one too :)
Thanks for your comment and inspiration! :)
Hey thanks! That’s a really good idea. I like the thought of open ended questions where there is less opportunity for him to “blank” on an answer
Thank you! He has loads of siblings so that’s a great idea. I appreciate you pointing out that a pause doesn’t necessarily mean he doesn’t know what to say, definitely something I’ll be mindful of.
You might want to discretely record his answers. You and your family will treasure it when he’s gone.
And it can help stretch his imagination too!
Oh! What a nice idea, I hadn’t thought of that. Thank you.
