This could be the beginning. 3 years ago my husband (then aged 73) forgot where to put our clothes and luggage for 12 hours after we returned from an out of state trip. It was alarming, but other people said, “It might be the airplane ride.” We got busy anyway, and made an appointment with a university neurology department studying and treating memory loss. After 3 mos., we got in. Brain scans were ordered. In-person memory exercises/tests were done. (I was not permitted in the room for these tests.) We then met with the team: Doctor head of clinic and doctor studying under him. Doc said there was a memory loss from testing and brain scan (EEG?) showed mini-strokes, very small. He was prescribed donepezil (Arocept) for one year, and has been taking galantamine for 2 years. He is still doing well. He is still present with me. He’s active and can go grocery shopping and to the drug store. He reads 3 newspapers every day and emails me articles. To be clear, we both notice that short term memory loss is increasing and he struggles to remember something nearly every day. We are both hoping he will plateau at this level for a couple of years.  (BTW The doctor called what my husband had 3 years ago, “a memory break.”)
Did docs check him for a UTI?  They wreak havoc on older people, scrambles their brains until they are on antibiotics and return to baseline. 

And they ruled out a TIA? 

The fact that he returned to normal after 4 hours seems like a one off.
When I was 23, the 24 year old woman who lived across the hall from me came home from work, took off her suit, and climbed into bed for a nap.  When she woke up 2 hours later she couldn't remember the last 3 days!  She only knew it was a weekday because her suit was still lying on the chair where she left it and she still had her reasoning ability to deduce that she had gone to work that day.

I accompanied her to the ER and the hospital ran lots of tests, but they never found an explanation.  And she was fine afterwards.  So I wouldn't jump to any conclusions about dementia.
Thanks. Hope you and your husband are always healthy and happy.
Thanks for your reply. My mother told me a lot of CT things and NMR. She didn't say anything about UIT and TIA. I need to talk to her and doctors to know more details.
Thank you. I am fortunate that he is 100% on board with treatment and is aware of his condition. No denial at this point.
