I would reach out to your state's aging and independent living office as soon as they open on Monday. Start working with a social worker to see if grandma qualifies for Medicaid. https://chfs.ky.gov/agencies/dail/Pages/default.aspx

Humana has longterm care insurance, but at this point, the monthly premiums will be very expensive.

There are longterm care facilities that care for people with cognitive decline, they are often called "memory care". But if grandma is yelling and fighting, they may require her to take some medications to help her calm down. A visit with her doctor is in order.
I agree with everybody! Consult a gerontologist who
could prescribe her some medication to calm her down. These behaviour get worst during sundowning..
If she’s a threat to herself or to your caregivers you can admit her to the hospital where she can be treated (US). She’d be medicated,  be monitored for treatment for a certain time period and a hospital caretaker would be assigned to her case if you say you can’t release her back to your care. They’d have to find a nursing home who can take her if she qualifies based on her inability to care for herself once she is considered non violent/confrontational. 

My mom was admitted to a hospital after she had a very very bad experience at a nursing home where she declined physically and mentally.
My grandma was yelling about having us kill her and hitting herself. Her doctor put her on Citalopram and it helped tremendously. It made her more calm and has seemed to balance out her moods. I would definitely look into a mood medication that may help.
Definitely talk to her doctor right away and call the Kentucky Department for Aging and Independent Living. They'll be able to guide you on what options are open for your grandmother. Nursing homes do take people with dementia, as someone already said. Her doctor and the Dept for Aging should be able to tell you how to go about finding help.
If you want any advice or to talk to someone you can PM me. I'm in NJ, different rules but I'm welcome to help with what I learned here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dvh3JhsrQ0w&t=355s
Declining once someone moves to home is more common than not I'm afraid
I'm not sure how to answer this without sounding bad, so please understand I dont mean this in a negative way.  


I dont think she is a danger to herself or others. 

There is a possibility of her turning on the oven or microwave when she is unattended and start a fire or something. 

She has had episodes where she got violent and tried to hit a nurse. but she cant do much damage.
Yes it’s a risk. My mom was assaulted by a fellow resident which led to issues with her ALF. In her new care home she’s thrived with more empathetic and responsive care staff. However from the posters message it seems her family is reaching a breaking point and that’s as important to consider as well.
