Very soft blankets and pajamas with her name embroidered on them. Supportive fluffy slippers. Older people tend to get cold easily, and they love feeling soft fleece and plush fabrics. Embroidering the name makes it feel a bit more fancy and it assuages any concerns about whose blanket it is.

I work in residential memory care. One of the ladies was recently sent a soft blanket with a pretty leaf pattern. Every night, she's surprised and happy to see her name on it. I tell her it's from her son and she lights up. Then all the other ladies stroke it and talk about how soft it is for half an hour. Every night, they all love this blanket ☺️
My grandpa isn't quite as advanced, so some of these ideas might not apply, but I hope it helps in some way! For my grandpa's presents we try to make a mix of things when possible, but as he's gotten older and progressed more we've come to realize that he truly just enjoys being thought of and included more than the amount of presents he gets.
Here's a list of some of the presents we've gotten him
-A large basket of all my grandpa's favorite treats (easily accessible drugstore candy and higher quality, gum, chips, etc)
-A daily rip-off calendar with funny cartoons on it (specifically Maxine cartoons) Obviously he doesn't remember to rip it off everyday, but when he does he laughs and tells everyone about it, and it really brightens his day. 
-New clothes since he really pushes back against it throughout the year, claiming he doesn't need it. We try to make the new items either something very simple he wears everyday, like jeans, or more specific them to him, such as personalized sweatshirts. We've also bought him nicer jackets to wear around the house since he's always cold and his old one was falling apart.
-A new coffee mug, with a sturdy handle and lid
-Things for him to do like coloring books, new colored pencils, an electric pencil sharpener, a word search book, jigsae puzzles, indoor plants/flowers since he used to love to garden. If you're looking for activities for people with dementia I highly recommend Amazon, specifically the brand relish as they have products that correlate with different stages and it can help to make sure you're not picking something too hard or easy. But that's where we've found a lot of activities for my grandpa, such as dry erase mazes, activity books, board games like Guess Who, conversation starter cards, etc. 

Some other ideas that came to mind could be: things relating to a spa day, especially if you had the time to join in and make it a fun thing for you guys to do together, a sample of coffee, tea, or whatever their favorite drink is, a more higher-end version of something they use frequently like a robe, slippers, pajamas, jacket, etc, if possible maybe a fun outing such as dressing up and going to a fancier restaurant.
We got my mom a dementia clock (amazon) that helps her reorientate with time, it lists the day of the week, and if it's evening, morning or night etc. It has helped her keep days and nights straight and she seems to really like it.
The simple music player. Just lift the lid and pre-loaded or custom added music plays. Several of our memory care residents have them and they are great. There is no messing around with cd players that skip or more complicated tech.
I'm basing this on the mainly disorientated phrase you used, as the PP covered other stuff great. You can get special fidget toys for people with dementia.  Not like the plastic craze that's going on at the moment (at least in my country). More like a knitted sleeve with buttons, beads, velcro and things like that very firmly sewn on so they can fidget with it but can't hurt themselves with the things falling off.  Also just a cuddly toy designed for newborns so the safety is very high,  so no detachable parts.  Also some kind of bag/pouch with just one simple zip as they seem to like hiding things at this stage and it keeps them a feeling of control, having their own hiding place. Unfortunately it will have to be subtly checked for food hidden there regularly, but I think its worth the work for the joy they get out of having their secret place.  I hope these help.
My mom really enjoys coloring! I buy her sets of gel pens and large print adult coloring books and she goes to town.  Not s sure if your Gma would like that, but it definitely keeps my mom busy!
Thank you for the lovely suggestions. I think Maxine would we greatly appreciated:) sincerely me, in Gresham and grandma in Dallas…. Since I identify with your username:)
Came here to suggest this. It helped my mom so much.
I have made a fidget cushion for my mum with dementia..she showed little interest apart from being afraid it may be stolen.

I made a 'feel board' for my dad who has dementia but has also lost his sight.. he touched the various items when I 'made' him but was not really interested.

My mum does like her baby doll and toy dog.  she has more than one of each but seems to like a couple more than the others.

My Mum likes to look at a small book of old family photos if I show it to her.

She likes old music favourites  but mostly when I 'sing' (lol) them.

My Dad also liked some music but now I just 'sing' rhymes to him.

I think 'real' music is just too fast for them whilst I can sing it slowly, at a pace they can follow.

'sing' with more than a pinch of salt.

Sadly we are further along on this heartbreaking journey...
You are doing such beautiful and thoughtful things for them!   Bless you and your dear parents.
thank you.. it is heartbreaking.  Now both have to have meals pureed and drinks thickened.  My Dad's birthday is next week.  And Xmas is just around the corner.  I'm afraid my brother and I won't be able to come up with suitable gifts that they will enjoy in any capacity.  The best thing is visiting them, giving them our time, 'singing' repeating the things I mentioned that they like and giving them lots of hugs and kisses.
You are giving them the gift of love.
thank you.. it's really the only thing they want - and chocolate :)
