Is it time to remove the app entirely? My grandmother obsessed over her bank account but understood it less and less, so she was constantly in distress over what different charges meant. We had to take away access to it entirely, which upset her for a week or two but faded. Some bank apps have a lot features that could get a person with dementia into trouble, too. I hope you find something that works for you.
I think I'd try deleting it, make a big fuss over trying to reinstall it and "failing" and promising you'll look into it. Then, as we called it, play kick the can down the road and stall until it slips from his mind.
Give him the 800 number to the bank, and the operator bot menu will get him to his account, assuming he can still follow the instructions? 

My mom probably called that number 20 times a day :)

I hope that he now has a POA designated to help him with his finances. While mom was still able to understand, she put me on her account so I could pay her bills and keep an eye on things.  One time I went online to see her accounts (savings and checking) and  saw that she called the bank, and over the phone, transferred all of her checking account into her savings account, less a couple hundred dollars.  Mayhem could have ensued had I not been monitoring things.
OMG I went through this with my husband, he couldn't remember any password.  I even sat with him and brought up every website he used and set a new password with him then made up a list of every password and he still screwed that up.  Right after getting the list he started changing passwords and couldn't get on any sire he wanted.  I had saved each password so had to go back in and change everything again and again and teach him to use the "saved password" feature which he always forgot.  I finally told him he was not allowed to change any passwords and if he had a problem with a password not working he had to tell me and I would help him. It helps that we are both retired and I am available whenever he needs me to help.  I do see a future when he won't be able to use the computer and at that point I will just "break" it.
i just removed it thanks to yours and everyone elses advise here.  well see how it goes. thanks.
yeah, this is probably the way.  thanks.
It might be a rough transition but it’s for the best, I hope it goes smoothly for you!
