If you haven't already, you need to start removing family photographs and other important items.  It's common for dementia sufferers to throw such things away because they no longer recognize people in photographs or remember the sentimental value of items.    
As Nutty said, leave only what she can use in the short-term (which may require some deception on your part.)  Unfortunately, some waste is going to be unavoidable.  I'd call it a win if she eats half a sandwich.  As the disease progresses, getting her to eat anything at all will be difficult.
I think your mom needs more supervision at this point.  Is she still spending time alone?  Her behavior indicates she is no longer capable of using logic and making safe decisions.  Even though it's just toilet paper and sandwiches now, if the logic is gone then she is in danger when unsupervised.  

Sorry to hear you are going through this.  My mom just slipped into the land of messing up technology she's been using for years.  I fix the bank login, she breaks it immediately since password management is out of her reach now and her bank phone app doesn't save the password for obvious reasons.  I could tape the password to her fridge in big bold letters and she will forget it's there and try to change the password because of course she can't remember it.
Well, I guess my MIL isn't there only one who's obsessed with throwing away toilet paper. Six rolls a day on average. She denies it every time, claiming someone is sneaking into her room and stealing it. 

She's in assisted living, but moving to memory care today. 

If your mom lives with you, I'm not sure there's any remedy other than locking up valuables. The compulsion to "tidy up" and throw things away is strong with some people, and who knows what's next. My MIL has thrown away clothes, watches, toilet paper, and who knows what else. We had to accept anything that goes in her room at the assisted living facility is considered disposable.
Only leave what she needs for that moment.  sandwiches could go in the freezer.. and hide the loo roll where she won't expect it to be.. perhaps...
We brought my mom home from the nursing facility she was in because they were able to get her to the point that we can handle her here at home with medication. She is forever pointing to things and saying it's ok just throw that away. And if we don't hide it or throw it away she goes on and on all day until we do.
Maybe print copies of them to use and keep the original safe somewhere, so things don't feel stark, but the risk is low.
My mom does the same with passwords! I'm working on getting her home health care now. She is fighting me every step!
I agree. I am in the process of getting her home health care. She is going to be so mad at me. A nurse is coming out next week to start the assessment process. I feel like I've betrayed her.
