I'm sorry. I know from experience how hard it is to deal with this kind of paranoia. It's not a harmless delusion like thinking there are kids playing in the yard, so you feel like you can't play along, but neither can you argue or reason with them. They're beyond reason and really truly believe what they believe.

Unfortunately, it's been a constant battle with my dad. He had recurring delusions that he'd done something terrible and was going to be taken away somewhere. He'd pace, yell, try to escape, etc. And it could go on for DAYS before the delusion let go. 

Things I've found that help:

\- Routine and consistency. If anything, and I mean anything, goes off routine, it breaks my dad's brain. It's like the only way he at all understands what's going on is if it goes exactly the same way every day, and as soon as something is off, he understands nothing whatsoever and freaks the \*\*\*\* out.

\- Sympathy. You have to walk a fine line: you don't want to reinforce this kind of delusion, I totally agree, but you do want to make her feel heard and reassured. Don't argue or tell her she's crazy, it'll just make her worse. Instead, reassure her that she's safe, that you won't let anyone take her, express sympathy for how scared she feels, etc. Focus on feelings, not facts, and for the love of god, try to get your family to change their approach. They're only making it worse. I know you can't make them do anything, but please talk to them about this and see if you can make some headway.

\- Meds. Yes, they have risks and side effects, but when it gets to the point where the person is in this kind of distress on a regular basis and behavioral interventions aren't helping, I think medication is a viable strategy. Not necessarily sedation, but your family can talk to her doctors about possible medications to improve her cognition, reduce her anxiety, and deal with the delusions. You do have to be super careful, because people with dementia can react badly to the wrong med, so definitely do this with lots of medical guidance.

\- CBD helps some people. If we could get an edible into my dad in the morning and evening, it seemed to mellow him out and reduce the chances of him going off the rails.

I'm sorry you're dealing with this. The paranoia and agitation are just the worst.
They're beyond reason and really truly believe what they believe.

\^This is probably the biggest thing.  It's not just a delusion to them, it is their reality at that moment.  I let my mom's delusion go, however far it would run in her mind, I just listened.
It hurts my heart to know that you’ve had similar experiences. I can’t thank you enough for taking the time to respond like this to me. 

Your suggestions make a lot of sense to me. Hearing your perspective that my family isn’t handling things to the best of their ability really ties things together for me because they’ve always told me my feelings are wrong instead of listening to me, even now as I’m far into adulthood with my own family. So in a strange way if an relate to her, and it makes so much sense that I need to listen to HER feels to give her the validation that they haven’t. That feels so spot on and attainable. And routine - I absolutely love that reminder as well. 

As I spend more time there, I imagine that my input regarding meds/CBD/and everything else will be heard and I’m so grateful to have your perspective and feedback. Thank you, friend 💕 best of luck and hugs to you and yours
Do you mind if I ask if you at all asked questions or engaged with it? My understanding is that this particular situation is fairly elevated with yelling and throwing her body around in a tantrum-like way. What seems most logical to me overall is making sure she’s physically safe and assuring her that she’s not alone, I’m with her, I’m listening etc. Thank you for your time I’m admittedly super out of my element with this.
Making sure she's safe is #2, right behind making sure you are safe.  It never made a difference to my mom if she was alone or if anybody was listening, YMMV.

I almost always engaged or asked questions about her delusions (I had the morbid curiosity? of wanting to understand how, why, and where the delusions were created).  Probably the easiest one to remember was her saying:  The clothes are in the sink, and the water is on, and the clothes are too high, and the water is going to overflow onto the floor.  I asked her why it mattered, the floor was tile and there was a floor drain.  A lot of times, it seemed like making her think about the delusion broke it, not that she came back to reality but she would move on to something different.

Why does it have to be fear and paranoia?  Why are the delusions of bodies floating down the hallway, flooding, broken windows, bugs crawling across the ceiling.  Why isn't it rainbows, lollipops, and kittens?
I always wonder that myself. Maybe sometimes it is rainbows and lollipops, but the rainbows and lollipops don't cause much of a reaction, so we never know about it. Or maybe they're just full of this free-floating anxiety over what's happening, but don't understand what's happening, so their brains latch onto any explanation for the fear they're feeling, even if it happens to be completely insane.

Who knows. No one's ever come back from dementia with a trip report, so we'll never really know what it's like to be in their heads.
No I totally have the curiosities too! It’s nice to know that that isn’t too wildly inappropriate. My impression is that it’s never rainbows and lollipops and kittens for anyone unfortunately, which yeah I’m itself is actually so interesting
