I completely understand the OP and you're not betraying her at all. I think sometimes in these tough situations, getting professional help can feel like if you're letting them down but you're not. At some point we need that professional help to take over with certain things. It can be a big relief. You'll always be there for your mom so don't feel bad.
My mom was a home health aide for about 20 yrs and now she's suffering from this disease. I would never thought that at some point that she'll need this care. Currently looking to get her some care. Have an appointment with the neurologist next week. And from there we shall see. Good look everyone who is going through this. My prayers are with all ya'll. 🙏🏾
You are NOT betraying her. You are getting her the help she needs and that’s a good thing for her AND you.  You can’t help her in the long run if you are burnt out and exhausted, full of anxiety, frustrated, angry at her, etc.  

The lack of hygiene is a typical behavior of those with dementia.  They just don’t want to bathe.  I’ve heard from a number of people that it is a sensory issue and they don’t like the feel of the water on their head/face. 

Make sure she also drinks enough water on a daily basis.  If she doesn’t, she could get a UTI, which could further scramble her mind. I learned this the hard way with my mom. I didn’t know the UTI/elderly behavior issue.
You're not betraying her: you're making sure her needs are being met, and you can't meet them without sacrificing your ability to support yourself. You can't set yourself on fire to keep her warm.

I get why you feel bad - we often feel like this is "our" job to do and by hiring someone else to do it we're shirking our responsibility, plus a lot of our LOs understandably don't want home care or to move into a facility, so this feels like going against their wishes. The thing is, your mom is at a point where she's not aware of her own impairment and not able to make rational decisions about her own care. That is your job, now - not necessarily providing that care yourself, but making the best decisions for her that you can make. And this is the best decision you can make right now.
Best thing you can do, started that in June of this year. So relieved 

As things have progressed( and they will for you as well) I just easily added more time to include weekends and extended the day time hours as well
We aren't to the point of in home help (we live with her) but my LO goes to a day center. She loves it. A lot of times they enjoy the company of someone different. And you will know she is safe and healthy. That will be a big relief.
Ohhh the "guilt" we feel when we put our LO in a home. This is something which is very hard to shake off. Just remember that she needs to be in a facility where her needs are met and YOU are doing your very best to put her needs first and foremost. Don't be hard on yourself. You got this☺️
Thanks! That's what the nurse told me. She said I could start with a few hours and work up as needed.
