try a treat food (whatever works)

eg. (might as well be brain healthy, too) an ounce or two of dark chocolate

It's easy to not eat if you've not been eating any food.  

But once you start eating, it's hard to stop getting back into the habit of eating again.  A bit of food, can 'wake up' our appestat.  Which, is probably why hospitals have soft drinks on hand.
It's going to have to be more about distraction and redirection than what would happen if he actually went there. Someone needs to be with him all the time and at least somewhat attentive. A door alarm, a driveway alarm, anything to keep him home, perhaps both ( the two together are less than a hundred dollars on Amazon). Compassionate lies like, "oh! That house had asbestos and we're having to get it fixed, it's not safe for you there until it's all done" or some other excuse.
Thank you for the reply  but I'm not too concerned about the not eating part as he's done that in the past.  He will start eating when he's hungry.  I'm much more concerned that he may try to get back to the house since he remembers the way (its about 1.5 miles  fro where he lives now).  He would then either  break a window to get in or if someone comes to the door  he may force his way in or they may call the police. 
  He still has the strength of a full grown adult Male but he doesn't comprehend what's being said to him very well.  (He can no longer zip up his coat or make coffee)
Thank you.  Usually he will forget about something fairly quickly if it's out of sight.  For example,  he had one of the first digital cameras made.  It needed a battery and memory card, neither of which are still made.  I brought it to my house after telling him "I'll have to look for them online "  he hasn't mentioned it since.   We don't leave him alone at all.  Someone is with him 24 hours a day but I'm thinking it might be time for an alarm on the door.   I'm not sure he remembers to hit the button to raise the garage door but I might put the opener on a switch so he can't open it.
If much more than 24-48 hrs pass without touching any food/drink, then normal appetite triggers no longer apply.

Perhaps a door chime/buzzer would alert any other residents that he's 'on the move'.
You're always better off to over-prepare. Thank you for being one of the families who actually cares and acts on it, so many don't and then when it gets traffic, they're "shocked".
Yea I have considered a door buzzer to alert someone else in the house.  I just wondering how to convince him he no longer lives there or what my next step should be.
Pull out/print out pictures you've taken since he moved and show them to him.  Like special events or holidays so you can go over the memories.  Put them up, make a photo album and look and talk about them every day.  Point out things that came from the old house, how can they be here now? Remind him, you live at such and such, write it down and tack it up on the fridge or the wall.

My Dad's no longer home, but desperately wishes he was.  He forgets where he is and and it's very hard convincing him.  On the phone I'll always reference his pictures on the wall, his phone number list, his clothes in the closet, the whiteboard that has his name and address and etc..  He can't walk, but he did crawl out into the hallway one night when they didn't answer his call bell, catheter and all.  He also called 911 one night when they didn't answer.  (AND THEY CAME!, although admittedly it was rather hilarious)  I do completely understand your fear and worry.  Get the alarm too.  And take care of yourself sweetheart, make sure you do.  Your health, mental and physical, is important too.  If he becomes a danger to himself it might be time to look at getting home care or a care home.  It was the hardest thing we ever did and I hate it, but there wasn't any other option.  And he's safe, he has one of us visiting every day and they're afraid of us now, he's getting good care.  That's peace of mind.  Take care, sending you a big virtual hug.
Alert the new owners of 'his' house, and provide your contact info in case this happens, is my suggestion.
