When you say elder homes, are these memory care facilities? And of the medications that she's taking, are any of them anti-depressants or anti-anxiety medications?
We are in the exact same position with our mother (on the West Coast). She too is making specific threats of suicide. We are searching fo a solution, but there does not seem to be one. Our society is not set up to handle this - there seems to be an implicit assumption that where the demented person is hostile to decent solutions, a child will have to sacrifice her/his life and babysit forever.
[deleted]
It's definitely not a unique situation, as many patients with cognitive decline (dementia/Alzheimer's/etc.) can often talk about how they wish they could die, or self-harm. But often, with certain medications, this can be resolved. If her current meds are not working, it might be time to talk to her physician and ask for dosage adjustments. Her family can also ask the physician for advice on next steps. This may include a brief stay at a geriatric psych facility, before transitioning into memory care.
SSRIs carry a black box warning because they can cause some people to become suicidal. Almost lost my young-adult son because of this. It’s a more common issue for younger people, but if this is a new behavior that started after she began taking an SSRI, it’s worth investigating.
Not unique at all. Take her to the MD for meds change. I am not an expert but my MD said that depression meds can actually make things worse by increasing seratonin when you actually need to decrease it. There will be a dramatic improvement on the right meds regimen.

Also these suicidal utterances are most likely a cry for help or attention. I went through a lot of that and realized she doesn't at all remember saying these things and it's just in the moment to gain sympathy. Once we got the meds right, this is no longer a factor.
100% her meds need to be re-evaluated.  My mom was put on Klonipin (sp?) for anxiety and it made her bat shit crazy and more combative. It took me a bit to realize that’s what it was and then I asked her doc to remove it from her cocktail.  She definitely calmed down a bit after stopping it, and with the introduction  another Rx, but the damage was done because she was kicked out the first assisted living she was in.
Medications? LOL! My mom will not take medications and becomes angry (screaming curled-up ball on the floor) when asked.
My grandmother also refused medications. It got bad enough that she eventually needed to enter into hospice because the medications she refused to take were keeping her alive (heart, diabetes). Her hospice team was able to finally get to take her meds most of the time, and really turned it around for her.

You may want to talk to her physician and ask for their opinion on her condition. However, if the medications are not medically necessary, there's really not much you can do, except consider a stay at a geriatric psych facility. They have methods of getting their patients to willingly take their medications, either by mixing it with food/drink, or creating a pleasant-tasting tincture.
It will eventually come down to an emergency (because of her not taking meds, as you noted, or because of a future fall). Then we can hope she will be released to someplace other than one of our homes. Not soon enough though.
