Like in retail, anything you want to say rudely, just rephrase it so that it sounds nicer, and cut out any insults.

Feeling like you want to tell your grandad to go away, fuck off, and leave you alone is very understandable- I feel the same way many times each day with my grandma, who talks constantly, repeating herself most of the time.  So what I say is "Grandma, I just need some space for a minute" or "Grandma, I just need some quiet time to read for a minute."     

Then it's best to both distract her with something else (talking with another person works best if i can swing it... sometimes I call various relatives and beg them to talk to Grandma for a while, or suggest she calls one of her friends... also Facebook will work for a few minutes or a home décor magazine)  and then physically distance myself to get out of her line of sight.
I'm so sorry you're going through this as it's so incredibly frustrating. I definitely fight the urge to tell my grandpa to fuck off everyday as well, so know you're not alone! Something that's worked pretty well for me with my grandpa is that when he starts to follow me or is just standing in a room staring at me I'll ask him questions about things that in another room, such as what he's been watching on TV or if he's done anymore on his puzzle. This usually leads to him answering the question, and since he's thinking about that activity he goes back into the other room to continue doing it. If there's something you know that really engages him, utilize it as much as possible as well. I second the other comment with getting him to talk to someone else, it works wonders. However, it also leads to him coming and relaying the entirety of the conversation to me after he hangs up. Also, don't be afraid to take small breaks outside of the house when you need them. Obviously the person doesn't know what they're doing and how it's impacting the people around them, but it doesn't take away from the strain it puts on us.
Thanks, I'll try that. What do you do when she follows you? Do you firmly but calmly repeat the boundary?
Thank you
She's only in about stage four tbh, so it's not so much a case of her following me *right* after I've asked her to, more that she'll understand what I'm asking and want to respect it even if she's sometimes a little hurt... but then 2-5 minutes afterwards she'll forget and call me for something else or want to know where I am and what I'm doing.  I usually just yell back to tell her I'm "on the computer for work" or "I'm using the bathroom, give me some privacy" or whatever.... it's not so much calm and firm as kinda pleading...

If she is still anxious and needing attention I usually sit down to watch TV with her... she has some sundowning and doesn't sleep as she should at night so she often dozes off in front of the TV and then I sneak off... if she wakes up she'll often resume watching TV for quite a while without me.
That pretty much sounds like my granddad. I'm sorry you're having to go through that as well. I know it can be frustrating to the point that you want to tear your hair out sometimes.
It really is, I'm an introvert as well and what gets to me most is the constant noise, either her talking or the TV... I like my books and my laptop.  I live with her now so I have established an early bedtime for me and that's when I get alone time, the couple hours before I sleep.  Sorry you are dealing with this too!
I hear you on that. I also can't stand the sound of something running constantly like a TV. It drives me insane. I usually have to put headphones in to drown out the sound of him talking or the sound of the TV.
