> My mother needs a second set of eyes looking over her accounts.

Sorry, from what you say, I disagree.  She needs one set of eyes looking over her accounts: yours.

I'm in a a similar situation.  Luckily, "my mother" is tech savvy (read between the lines) -- "she" can do all of her financial transactions online, and she has put most of her bills on auto-pay.

The way I see it, the POA protects you while you do the things you're supposed to, for her... even if some entities don't like accepting it.

I've got my mother's checkbook for when it's needed, signing "my name (POA)".

Maybe try another bank, setting up an account for "her" using your POA and with your online access, and see if they'll work with you better.  I've found it surprising how different banks have different rules and different attitudes.
We obtained a letter from two of my Mom's doctors stating her decision making skills are affected by her Alzheimer's disease and that it is their recommendation that her POA be activated. Her Neurologist and her primary care doctor had zero issues drafting the letters and we were able to pick them up instead of waiting on mail.
We took both letters and the POA to the bank. This was plenty of information for them and all paperwork was accepted. I hope this helps. Good luck!
I work for a bank, I would talk to a manager or account services. Your POA supersedes anything the bank has as their own form. As long as you have the original copy of the POA notarized they cannot refuse it.
Two things. First, you can always sign checks as yourself acting as power of attorney. Second, have your attorney call the bank to find out what is going on. I know it'll cost a little money (attorney's time) but it will resolve it quickly.
It's always good to know your doctors, lawyers and bankers personally.

My attorney would *love* to hear that some functionary at a bank refused his notarized POA.

*"What bank was that, Sol? ... I'll get back to you."*
This is what I'm going through right now. Had to fill out one form just to allow my Mom's investment firm to even "talk" about her IRA. I have a POA (among other things that my Mom & Dad prepared a while back), but it was executed a while back - almost ten years ago, I think. Now as we're getting closer to potentially needing to explore options, I'm trying to get everything squared away and the investment firm has another set of their own POA forms for EACH SEPARATE ACCOUNT. Each form needs to be signed and notarized too. Since I also need to do this with her Chase accounts, I'm probably going to find out if/when the nearest Chase branch has a notary scheduled and go try to knock it all out at once (assuming they'll notarize for non-Chase documents too). Thankfully, my Mom is still is pretty good shape and actually WANTS me to help, so that's a good thing.
You may have to apply for guardianship in court. Since you have POA it will be much easier (and cheaper) than my dad having to get it for my mom. It was several months and 5000.
I’ve had some of these issues and it’s so frustrating the roadblocks we face even with appropriate legal documents. When you’re dealing with so much already, having these problems can be stressful. There is some good advice here, so hopefully you’ll be able to get it resolved!
You, your lawyer, and the branch manager need a meeting.
Move her $$$ to another bank.
I had to provide an original letter from my Dad's neuro stating he cannot manage his finances due to dementia. One of his retirement plans required letters from 2 doctors. I tried taking my Dad into the bank but the minute I said he had dementia they wouldn't allow him to make any changes. I contacted the bank's customer service and they provided me the steps and what docs were needed.
My experience with Bank of America was this:
While mom was still “with it” enough, she added me and one of my brothers to her account. 

But I would think that your existing POA document would be acceptable.  Everywhere I sent copies accepted what we had and I was added onto her other accounts.
good heavens i never dreamed that an existing POA wouldn’t be accepted by different places. i just assumed there was only one format.
I just went through this last week. I had to have my dads lawyer who drew up the papers call them then draft a letter. They pulled the same shot, saying he had to fill out their POA paperwork. That’s an absolute lie and is literally what the POA papers are for. My dads bank was “generous” enough to give me a printout from dec 1 and I’ve already found problems. I’d go to the next level above the branch manager because those papers are 100% legitimate. Talk to the lawyer who write them if possible. I literally hate these people I’m dealing with. I will be moving his money because I absolutely have the authority to write checks for him. Sorry you have to go through this ridiculousness.
Go back to the lawyer and see what they say. I'm sure this can be solved.
The perversities are stunning. Asking a person with dementia to sign a release for his doctor to say he can't manage his business to a lawyer he no longer trusts because he has dementia.
Tell the bank that because of his medical condition it is impossible for him to be part of the process and they need to give you an alternative option to exercise your POA. They will require proof of diagnosis or letter of incapacitation.
Yes, they can do this and it's not uncommon. I'm sorry no one told you to address this with the bank two years ago and better yet, to get added to her account.  Can you try to control and watch over her account using online banking as if you are her?  Meanwhile you can look for a bank that will accept your paperwork and open an account there in your Mom's name, with you as POA. And then maybe you can transfer over direct deposits and slowly transition over.
Get a letter from the doctor stating that he is incompetent. I had to do this (actually needed 2 letters to change the Trustee to me from her). Make sure the letters say that she can't make decisions regarding her financial and legal matters. The neurologist that I got the first letter from already had a template letter set up. I detest banks. One in particular asked my father EVERY TIME if he knew that my being on their checking account meant I had access to "all his money". Which was patently untrue. Luckily my father trusts me with both his finances and medical care as well as mom's. Hang in there. This is a rough road, especially when people think you're taking advantage of your LOs, when in fact you're doing everything to keep them safe and alive.
Wow that is a lot of hoops to jump through. Thanks for sharing.
Thank you very much. I probably need to give more pushback and insist.
My attorney didn’t even charge me for the call or drafting a letter explaining my POA was 100% still in effect. I told her I had no problem paying but she was so upset they weren’t honoring it when they should she did it free, bless her.
This is what my lawyer did, I went through this just this week. The bank  aren’t budging on some things (like we need to get him a new car that’s easier for me to transport him in, and they won’t give me anything but a printout back to the first and the ability to sign checks with POA) so far the lawyer’s had to call AND draft a letter that my papers are legit. The reason you do a legal POA is so you don’t have to do one every single place. 🤦🏻‍♀️ it’s maddening.
If Chase gives you any problems ask to speak to a supervisor or senior manager. They will escalate you to a group with special authority to get things done quicker.
I’ve had a really good experience working with Chase. My moms account was a Chase account, and I had POA docs AND letters from two doctors.  At the time my Mom was threatening to withdraw all her money and burn it in the yard. Chase does have REALLY specific rules about what you can and can’t do, but the staff came up with some creative solutions and I was able to open a new account with my moms money, but she doesn’t have access to it. I kept the old account open with limited funds so she can still write a check if needed, but can’t do any damage.
Thank you for adding what your cost was. While everyone's own mileage varies, it's helpful to have benchmarks like this.
Can you just move someone’s money? Won’t that cause a flag? I am my moms poa. I do use her account to pay her bills for her memory care and her incidentals.
I know right! 😵‍💫
Ok thanks!
You're welcome. Tbh, it wasn't difficult. I'm thankful that everything came together as well as it did.
Yeah there’s no way your POA is no good, every bank has their own forms but those only work for their bank and for the accounts signed. However your POA is all inclusive (as long as there are no restrictions) and work for everything. Banking or otherwise. If they continue to give you trouble have a lawyer call or request to see their policies and procedures on POA’s specifically
Thank you! Yes so maddening. I really appreciate your comments. I’ve never posted on Reddit until this post but this board has been helping me for months.
Open a new account at a different bank, with your mom and you as signatories.  Electronically transfer the funds to the new account. Or ask the new bank to do it for you.  You should be able to do this, with your notarized POA.
