Yes I think it’s normal. 

Are you able to get help in supporting your husband? You need time to relax before you can even begin to figure out what you actually want.
Sending light and love your way.
Yes to tired and drained. Caregiving just feels endless. Always someone else ahead of you, always decisions for their care or what’s in their best interest. It’s important to keep your identity outside of being a caregiver. If you’ve already lost who you are, start rediscovering yourself. What movies you like, music you like to listen to, books you like to read. Become a connoisseur  of wine, cheese, or exotic fruit! Whatever strikes your fancy and holds your interest. I know your journey isn’t over yet because you are still taking care of your husband but hopefully he can enjoy discovering new things too!
I have so much to say, but currently in excruciating pain from a wisdom tooth coming in, at the ripe old age of 47. 47! 
I will be back. Please know, I can relate.
I'm back, antibiotics in tow. First off, I am so sorry you're going through this. It is so very surreal. Tired and drained are so unfairly normal words for us. Sucks. The world goes on, and here we are, basically dying a slow death. I've cared for my mother (87) for over 10 years. I am 47, and I fight to not lose hope in any "future". I have no friends at this point, and the reality of that is mind numbing. Being a caregiver is all I know in my waking life. I occasionally get to live out my own life in dreams. My cats give me purpose beyond caring for mother. I am so full of life, yet living the life of a dead soul. I encourage you to do little things that free you from the everyday repetitiveness. Read. Try and fit in a new hobby. We really are in a position of fighting to hang on.
My gosh at 54 mines is coming through as well. Oh the pain.
Hope u feel better soon.
It is a walking death. There are days I just want to dissappear into a forest, never to be found again, but I can't I have two kids. I don't dream anymore about a future, its disheartening.
Yikes!
