Go visit her. Let her say what ever she wants, let her tell her stories and share whatever memory comes to mind. you will regret it for the rest of your life if you don't. she might not know you are you, but she will remember you from when you were little (probably), the visit won't stress her out. If she asks to go home, tell her whatever the nurses and your dad say to tell her.
My grandma didn't know who I was the last time I visited her. But she knew I was someone she loved. She wasn't even verbal at that point, but she grabbed my hand and held on tight and didn't let go. I'm really glad to have had that moment.
100% visit her for the reasons MinaFur said.
Go. Don't ask if she knows who you are or present any sort of expectation for her. Just go, spend time with her. You don't need to stay long, play it by ear. If she seems to be enjoying talking with you, stay longer, if she's confused and troubled, don't stick around but do let staff know she may be upset.
I don't agree with an absolute assertion that you'll regret it if you don't visit her. I only visited my gramma once in the nursing home in the 4 years she was there, and have no regrets - my memories of her from earlier are the ones that matter. 

Ultimately, you know yourself. If you think you may regret not visiting, then go see her. I think it's likely the visit will give you a sad or bittersweet memory, but as long as you focus on the memories from happier times, it won't "spoil" your memories of your grandma, just add to the complexity of her life and your relationship with her. 

Or if you want to maintain your memories of her unaffected by her dementia, that's OK too. She loved you, and you loved her. That's what matters.
Go see her.
My grandmother was in a facility a ways away, and I was working, my husband was working nights, and I was exhausted from being basically a single parent to young kids.
My mother told me I didn’t need to see her, because she didn’t know who I was.
So I didn’t see her for a while, but when I did, it was obvious even though she was non verbal, and struggling, that she did know.
I felt very sad that I hadn’t gone sooner.
You should go. Sometimes, when the end is close, dementia patients have moments of clarity.

Been there
