Get a medical and financial power of attorney right now, don't wait.
You can’t do anything. Your mom and dad have this f’d up dynamic where they cover/support each other’s deficits. All you can do is talk to dad 1-1. Dad I’m concerned about mom’s health. Then listen. Then wait until.   


They aren’t children and have a shelf life they are choosing to,not find out what is wrong and no one can make them at this point. All you can do is love them as they are and be ready to offer support when asked. It’s their life journey no matter how bumpy.
This hits close to home on so many levels. My dad is declining cognitively and physically. My mom covers for him & denies he needs help despite him falling a few times. 
She loves to complain that she does everything and then refuse our help when offered. So frustrating.
Sadly for now you need to let them do their thing, and wait for them to ask for help.

Another good place you should consider posting is r/dementia there's a lot of smart kind people there that have shared similar struggles.

I hope your mom has an epiphany soon and realizes she needs to visit the Dr every now and then.
Based on what though?
Hard to hear, but true. And we have. He's tried too. Yes love them no matter what.
Some people live in this circle…. It is dizzying.
You don't necessarily need a specific reason to obtain these POA docs, but they are very helpful in decision making for her own good.
Hang in there. It is going to be be very hard and only get worse. All you can do is offer.
But you can’t get these documents unless the person in question agrees that you are the one to make decisions for them when they can’t. I have all the documents for my mother. But it was done together when things were very good. Any mom canceling every dr appt sure isn’t going to cede control. They are stuck in fear mode. I wish you much luck. When parents refuse to accept change is happening whether they like it or not is beyond frustrating. But it is their life
It's certainly a difficult decision, but yes, she or any other loved one will have to sign it and have it notarized. It's better to do this wile they still have some mental facilities than trying to go through this when they're mentally gone.
That is what Im worried too. She won't sign it. But at the end of they day, you are correct. It's their life
When we sense a client is being coerced or there is a heavy handed child forcing it… huge red flag. The important thing is establishing a relationship with an attorney so he/she can see a baseline and hear what the client wants and learn about the client’s timeline… not the child of the client.
I’ve dealt with this with two grandparents and both of my parents. Meet them where they’re at. You can’t force someone to see a problem they don’t want to see.

In time, everything ends up pulling together. To the extent you need documents completed, they’ll get completed in due time.

Be patient. Try not to get angry, and when you do, take breaks.
