I remember that those struggling with forms of dementia are NOT doing anything wrong...intentionally.  It is simply the price of the ailment. I hear stories of caregivers blaming patients for their forgetfulness and such.

The world will not stop spinning because someone forgets to put a toothbrush back, or asks for the fourth time about "when's dinner" or has to be re-introduced to a family member.
LOL. My mom does the same thing in the kitchen. I knew she was in trouble when she started asking me where things are in her own kitchen that she has had for 30 years. The worst part is that if I leave an item of clothing or a pair of shoes out she will find someplace to put them away and it takes me weeks to figure out where she put them! It is good to adjust to their new habits because they really cannot be changed. I think this is one of the super powers that good caretakers have-- they accommodate their LOs as much as possible. I also try to have good humor about it because the opposite is just heartbreaking.
My husband (stroke victim) does this and I used to get really frustrated because I’d be in the middle and couldn’t find the rubber spatula I needed or something. Now I try to find everything I need before I start and if there’s anything I can’t find then I ask him to help me. He seems to keep things in constant rotation so it’s hard for be to adapt to where he puts things.
give her tasks that are really hard to do “wrong”. Like folding a pile of clean towels or underwear. Or, picking up clean items from the dishwasher, then towel dry them, and handing them to you, which you put away in the cupboard. You can also give her a page of promotions from the newspaper and ask her to clip coupons. if she does it all wrong no harm no foul.
Agreed, it’s just the new normal. She reads me the same article five times and I discuss it with her each time like it’s new when she’s done reading it. She asks me the same crossword clue repeatedly because she can’t find it below again for the number of letters, I don’t let on. On days when I fear I could show impatience, I just take a few extra breaks and meditate for a minute or two. This doesn’t mean I’m perfect at it, but I try my hardest and my actions, reactions and me are all I am in control of.
I’ll gather the utensils ahead too for more intense recipes, but I can’t ask mom to help me when I can’t find something because she gets upset, so I look or find something else to use.
I’m not assigning tasks, she selects them and I offer help if I see her struggling too much. Thank you for your kind words
