Your BIL does the right thing. The rule I learned a hard way is No Arguing. Tell her the pest control service is spraying chemicals there right now. Not safe to go today. There is no electricity there, let's stay here for the night. Just nothing bad like fire or flood. 

Safety precautions: all doors leading outside (house front door, garden gates) to be locked at all times, keys kept out of sight. All windows to be fitted with keyed locks or stoppers preventing full opening.     GPS tracking device is a good option, best if it can be worn at all times. An engraved non-removable bracelet is another option.
Honestly, that's a great solution.  Sometimes you have to be elaborate.  When they fixate on going home, God help you if you try to dissuade them.  "But Mom!  This is your home of 20 years!" will not convince them.  A quick drive is a great distraction.  I usually brought my Mom over to the park and then we went home.   But there were days even that didn't work and then nothing worked and then semi-hysteria.  And yes, your Mom may try to get out and walk back home.  So you need to ensure she's monitored and there are heavy duty locks on the doors or alarms or a tracking device on her.  It's so difficult.
Forgot to add. It is bad for everyone that she doesn't sleep at night. Ask her doctor for advice and may be prescription.
My mom complained about this constantly. She has forgot she owned a home for over 30 years and skipped that stage of life and wants to go to “her mom’s house”. She has lived with us for over a year now in her granny unit. Tbh I came to the realization that she wasn’t getting better and chose quality of life versus trying these meds that didn’t work. I asked her neurologist to put her on anti-anxiety meds. In about 2 weeks she stopped asking to go home and really took the edge off of her. She still talks about going home, but usually I can tell her she can’t or redirect and it is better. Talk to your doctor about anti-depressants or anxiety meds to help.
I think this has to be a three part solution.
1. Lock and alarm everything for when she inevitably decides, at 3am, to walk "home". Double deadbolt locks work if someone is always there with the key. Otherwise at least childproof locks (those sliders at the top of the door for instance) on doors and windows as well as alarms so you know if she's wandering.
2. Meds. Ask about anti anxiety/sleeping meds to keep her from fixating on this to the point where she's getting up multiple times a night.
3. If she does get up, you're dealing with it the right way: redirect with plausible excuses and/or take her for a ride around the block. Of course you can't do that every two hours every night, thus the meds to try to keep it down to a dull roar. (And the locks and alarms in case she sneaks past you.)
We turned up the volume on notifications overnight on our Ring camera to wake us up if my mom goes out the door (and learned lots of deer are around at night, ha) We also talked to her Dr about and got night meds to help her sleep better. We also try to keep a schedule that she stays awake until 7PM, she was falling asleep at 4PM and waking up at midnight.

One thing I’ve read: when people with dementia want to go “home” they often mean their childhood home or somewhere else entirely and arguing “You ARE home” is useless and frustrating for everyone. Sometimes when my mom wants something unreasonable I say “Maybe (or even absolutely) tomorrow” vs arguing and it seems to calm her down. Best wishes!
This is the most common thing my grandma does. Usually I just tell her that it's too late now, and we will take her tomorrow. And just repeating the same every time she asks.
This is quite common. Remember with dementia, folks are living a younger version of themselves. 

My dad recently asked his brother is he was going to shovel the snow at moms house( she passed away YEARS ago- early 00s). 

The current solution is great, but perhaps start to surround her with things from her past that are familiar.  It could help :)
She is suffering from anxiety, could also be a UTI. We had that issue from time to time. Eventually got her confortable enough at our place that very seldom we  hod that issue.
THIS!!!!!! All the time. We have to pick her up, ride around for 39 minutes and bring her back. 
Do not tell her that that’s her home- or that she doesn’t have a home other than the one she is in. Pretend that you are in fact taking her home. Pack a bag. Ride along, remind her how she moved or ended where she is at- 

We are going to have to do this until one day I guess, she will forget that she actually lives there.

Right now we do it 2 to 3 times a week. It starts with a phone call- she says I am ready to be picked up, I guess I didn’t bring my car.

Edit: I was talking about my own case. My mother goes as far packing her back, taking her reading material…We live 5 mins away from my parents house. This usually happens at sundowners-
I do agree that it's a great solution! The issue is that it's occurring at midnight, 2am, 4am, etc and it leads to the family waking up and leaving the house which does not seem like a long term solution to do every single night? I'm just not sure - you're totally right. It is so difficult.
This happens, my mom skips the stage where she is married to my dad- and thinks she is dating- goes back to being married to her first husband. So s she doesn’t understand why is she living in “somebody else’s house”- when in reality is her house of almost 30 years
I’ve found with my FIL that getting to the fear is what really helps with him. A lot of times it is because he “doesn’t want to be left behind when we check out in the morning.” When I spend time convincing him he is home then two hours later he is up and upset again. BUT if I make eye contact with him, let him know I love him and would never leave him behind he will usually say “oh, you don’t know how happy it makes me to hear that!” and then he will sleep through the rest of the night.

The things that seem to work pretty well are reminding him that he is safe, I will always make sure he is safe and he has nothing to worry about.

I definitely feel for you.
