Length of time is gonna be different for everyone I anticipate. My dad is in assited living, though a lot of the places we toured wanted to put him in memory care. The differences between memory care and assited living had to do with the patients proclivity to wandering and their level of care. Memory care is usually locked and/or alarmed so your loved can't wander and get themselves into trouble if they have a habit of doing so. People struggling with incontinence, inability to feed/clothe/shower themselves, and any aggression issues will be sent to memory care. My dad doesn't have these issues yet, but he does need to be checked in on and promted to do activities fairly often, which some facilities viewed as the extra level of care needed to send him to memory care.

Most of the people in the memory care facilties we visited had low cognitive function and were non-verbal. My dad is still conversational, and we felt the ability to interact with his peers was essential to extending his quality of life, so we toured 20-30 facilities before we found a great fit. I rest so much easier knowing he is getting checked on multiple times a day and I even notice his cogntion has been steady for a longer period of time. He did have a cognitive dip when he first moved in and had to acclimate to his surroundings, which we were told to expect. I recommend moving them earlier rather than later, so they can have as much cognitive function as possible to acclimate. We had to visit often for the first couple weeks but he settled in gradually. The facility we moved him into also has a memory care, so hopefully that familiarity will ease his transition when we have to move him there.

All the facilites we visited had openings, but many of the cheaper or more desirable rooms had a waiting list. There's a lot of paper work that needs to be done; covid vaccinations, health reconds, power of attorney, DNR, etc... We put a rush on it and were able to move him within a week of deciding on a place (most of this info is the same for memory care). Hope this helps and best of luck to you and yours.
It will depend on the availability and procedures of the places near you. I just went through this with my mom. The places I had shortlisted had said if they have a space they can get someone in in as soon as 72 hours. The proviso is that if they have a space. For my Mom, we took it slower and it was a 2-3 week process. Maybe come up with a shortlist of places, find out which can take new memory care residents, then tour the facilities. They may give you a form for your relative's doctor to complete with medical history and notes. At the places I looked at, they required an assessment to determine the care plan I hope that is a bit helpful. I hope it goes well. Some places will do virtual assessments of necessary. I hope this info helps.
My sister was moved to memory care from her apartment about a month after the court gave me guardianship. We realized she needed to go about 2-3 months before that but was non compliant and far enough gone that guardianship was necessary.

I found it very difficult to research places and find openings. I turned to a free service like “A Place for Mom” can help find places that meet your criteria that have openings.

The trigger points for us determining that she needed to go to memory care we’re unsafe behaviors and the inability to perform basic life skills like cooking and showering.
[deleted]
Thanks so much. My MIL is also conversational and wants company a lot, but she is incontinent, can't prepare the simplest meals, can't administer meds herself and fights on showers and getting dressed. So not sure what is best. Currently trying to decide what our boundaries are in terms of behavior that we can't have in our house or handle ourselves.
just got mother some Seroquel today. Feeling optimistic reading this, thank you
We definitely saw some great memory care facilities that were suited to what you're describing, but it took weeding out the many that were not a good fit and some that were downright bad. It is such a tough disease to content with, and an overwhelming decision to make. Don't forget to prioritize your own health in these matters, you are doing the best you can and there is help out there to get your MIL the care she needs.
My mil's assisted living has a restaurant style dining room for all meals.  She uses adult diapers and pads, and apparently only showers once a month (doesnt smell, uses wet wipes and lots of scented product), and its ok.  Aides help dress her.  A good assisted living can roll with that.
