No, I don't think so.   It's just that those grooves were indented in the record of their brain so many decades ago, it will activate.   If you tried to substitute different words, they likely would not even hear them - the old original words they know are echoing in the mists of their brain.  

My mum hasn't been to church in like 75 yrs (except for the odd Christmas when I was a kid & we were at grandmas).   I've never heard her singing hymns.  One day a few years back we were doing something & I put on an old Ella Fitzgerald cd - I was STUNNED when mum just started singing along, knew all the words.   Every now & then some snippet of old hymn comes on tv, she'll sing along.  Old, well-worn record grooves.   

Nice thought though, and there might be some way to take advantage of it, as the other commenters here suggest.  Simple, short directives sung over & over whilst doing that action, for eg....
My wife has great difficulty speaking sentences but she knows the word of songs and can sing along some. The memory of music seems to last longer than most other things. I sing to her often (terribly) and it works well to engage her. Of course she loves ‘80s music which is not my favorite genre…
Music is one of the last things to go. Check out [this Wikipedia entry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alive_Inside:_A_Story_of_Music_and_Memory) and the Youtube clip of [Alive Inside](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Zo_JQZo3Y0). It's one of the better sources of info on the topic I've found.

And another, from[ ABC Science](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rnUSNbqtVJI), that's well worth your time.
That is interesting.  I wonder if they can interpret the lyrics.  It would be worth experimenting with.  I can imagine singing; "Let's go change your underwear and take a shower while we're there." to Twinkle Twinkle Little Star.
No. Only very rote old songs would be remembered this way. To sing Amazing Grace, you would use procedural memory in the same way you would put pants on or pick up a glass to drink. Procedural memory is the longest preserved in dementia. 

To understand a new song, you would still use your language comprehension skills. To sing an unfamiliar song that you just heard, you would need short term memory and language skills. These are often the most affected areas, depending on the type of dementia.
My mom remembers song lyrics and can't remember who my dad's brother and sister and mother are. She was singing carols this morning!
The deacons would come one Sunday a month to give my dad communion. The deacon would sing a song we always sang at communion service. My dad forgot how to read but he remembered the words to that hymn
I am a teacher and I used to take my school choir to sing christmas songs at a local aged care home. Most of the residents were not verbal. I noticed one man singing along to many of the songs. After we finished singing I went to him and said I had seen him singing and I asked him a question (can't remember what). He just stared at me and a carer came up and said he hadn't spoken a word in years. 

I have since done a lot of reading about dementia since my mother's diagnosis and it is well known that music therapy is very beneficial.
Check out the " "One Last Time" video of Tony Bennet with Lady Gaga. Although he has pretty advanced Alzheimer's disease he can still sing his songs when the piano starts playing. This is the most radical example of what you are describing that I have seen.
Of course. Ask stuttering Mel Tillis
Both my parents have dementia, but it's affected them in different ways.

My dad has lost all memory.  He'll forget from literally one minute to the other as well as most of the past.  4 years ago I started 'singing' old rhymes to them. The majority of them new to both Mum and dad.  Singing them in a traditional singsong tune.  I've been singing them almost every day - and my Dad has 'learnt' them.

My mum, on the other hand, listens as if it's for the first time but then will remember songs from the past.  and we sing those too...

I, of course, use the word 'singing' very very loosely.. :D
Thank you for taking time to share these links. 

Whenever I drive my dad, I'll sing old music hall ditties: "Show me the way to go home," etc. He can't manage the words, but sort of hoots along & seems happy to be joining in.
It’s hard to do.  You really have to think.  It’s easy to say, Get me a candy bar at the store.  But singing it to Camptown Races, doesn’t come naturally, but it works. Get me a candy bar at the store, do dah, do dah.   I think it would just take practice.
Ha! We were singing this last night! It’s kind of comforting to think that there are common things in humanity that we all share and bring joy to us.
