My dad just received an Alzheimer’s diagnosis here in the UK. He’s 75 and for the last year, we’d been talking ourselves into it just being normal age related forgetfulness but it was occasional obsessive hiding/hoarding that started to creep in that made us think it might be more. He’d had a brain scan as part of checks for when he had Covid this Autumn and when the memory specialist visited his home recently, she could use the scans taken in September along with the memory assessment to make a diagnosis, it was all very quick but I know we’re lucky that the diagnosis wasn’t a long drawn out process. I know it sounds odd but it was a relief to have a diagnosis as treatment/support would be available. He isn’t totally clear on the implications of the diagnosis right now, he has good days and bad days. It’s frightening not knowing what the future holds and I sympathise with what that weird in between stage you are going through right now. I get frustrated with my mum sometimes for constantly correcting him when he gets stuff mixed up like TV plots or topics of conversation but after 50 years of marriage, she is adjusting too. My approach is to let little stuff go and only correct him when absolutely necessary.
Once it begins there is no way to reverse. What he can do now are a few things:
1. Exercise. That has always been stressed by my mom’s doctor.
2. Brain games. Puzzles, math games, sudokus, etc.
3. Healthy foods.

Outside of that, it’s crap shoot. My mom was similar, but eventually got worse over a couple years and fell off the cliff due to COVID lock downs. Good luck.
Hello! I first wanted to acknowledge how stressful this situation must be for you and your mother - it can be so overwhelming - especially the more information you read, it can be very confusing. It sounds like you are both very much in tune with your father and what his normal limits are - also important that you had the MRI done - you didn't mention when the MRI and tests were done - if they were completed 12 months ago (approx. time) and there has been noted decline since then I would speak again to the physician - to re-test and a follow up MRI -it also does not hurt to get a second opinion - particularly if you are able to get referred to a geriatric specialist - in my experience family physicians can sometimes miss things - whereas a specialist will be more aware of more subtle changes - Contacting the local Alzheimer society would be helpful as well, as they could give you more localized resources.

Something that I have always found helpful is to keep a log of abnormal events (dates, times, triggers) of specific behaviours, things that are concerning to you - this way you can physically see patterns emerging. For example my stepfather is usually fine at night but recently he has been taking longer to settle and he becomes confused at bedtime - so I will write down the date and time and what happened so that way if it continues we can see where there is a pattern.

There are also a lot of other considerations such as medications - any new medications or dosage changes lately? Any infections that could be present (this can cause much confusion) uncontrolled diabetes, heart disease etc. These are all things to look at before a diagnosis of dementia.

There are medication options that are best utilized in the beginning to mid stages of dementia - one of these is donepezil (trade name aricept) - this medication works to increase the levels of acetylcholine (which helps to improve communication between nerve cells) - dementia is essentially the death of nerve cells in the brain -so because of the nature of the disease, every person is affected differently. There is no cure for dementia but in my personal experience aricept really helped my father and my stepfather - my stepfather started taking it just after he was diagnosed with mild dementia and for 2 years he was on it and it really did slow the progression and it did help his memory - but there will be a point where it is no longer effective. Unfortunately it is a progressive, degenerative beast of a disease but there are options. 

Diet/Exercise - ensuring any chronic medical conditions are under control

Medication checks with physician/pharmacy 

Keeping them active mentally as much as possible - as the other commenter posted - brain games, reading, crossword puzzles etc. 

Please know that there is so much support out there so many resources available - and it is so overwhelming at first because it seems like so much you don't know - but please know that you are both doing the best you can and you obviously love your father so much. Also know that sometimes overworry can contribute - I completely understand how scary it can be but if everything has been okay so far, continue doing what you are doing and monitor but also do not allow yourselves to become consumed by worry. I have personal and professional experience with dementia (RN with dementia specialization, worked in long term care since 2003) so if you want to speak further or just need someone to listen, please feel free to message me. I hope you have a great day and please take care!
I think it's important that your see an dementia expert, like a neurologist who specializes in this area.  They can work through the process of trying to figure out the cause for these behaviors. This would involve medical tests for potential curable causes of the these problems, as well as expert neuropsychological (cognitive) testing. It's good to know what you are dealing with and what you can expect to happen.
Not sure how it is where you are, but there’s test they can take and that will give indications on if and how severe it is.
Contact local health care specialist or get his doctor to refere to testing. Can take it as part of yearly check up or something with blood tests etc, just explain to doctor your concerns. It sounds like it from the “symptoms” you describe.
