My strategy is/was to be honest, but still focus on the positives. Every time you have to tell him no, interject a positive before you're done taking. 

Flat out tell him no, but same sentence be very excited about a video chat. Ifhe asks why, tell him because he needs someone to go with him and nobody wants to. Then get excited about a video chat. If he gets mad, tell him you're sorry he's mad, you'd be mad too if you were in his shoes. But again, you'll be happy to setup a video chat!
Does the sister live in a retirement home?  Maybe try saying they arent letting any seniors that live there see others right now.

Or the government arent letting people into florida cause how bad the virus has gotten if he can believe that though i dont think my dad would believe it.

Id personally set up skype without asking him and just let him walk into the room and talk to his sister that way so he knows what it feels like.  

I do skype over the large 55" tv screen with my dad.  My sister plays poker with him over it with each of them playing with their own deck of cards.  Bingo together.  Jenga.  As long as there is a caregiver on both sides to faciltate, it works well.  My dad is at a point he doesnt even need a caregiver.  If he has enough fun with her over the screen (so id make it fun and long), maybe it will fill the need in him to see her enough hell start asking less.  This might backfire but well, hed probably forget in a day anyway but if it fills the urge, then that feeling might remain.

Id set it up on a tv as it feels way more like real life since they are about the same size.
I've used various redirects with my father, some more truthful than others. He wanted to book flights so his "girlfriends" (scammers who weren't even female) could come visit him.

"The airlines have been canceling flights right and left because of the virus."

"The risk to her health is too great, we can't do that to her."

"I'll see what I can get after this wave of covid has passed."

"It's impossible to get a rental car these days, and I hear the labor shortage has really cut down on public transportation to and from the airport. Even if we got there, we'd be stranded."

"Everything's booked until spring. I'll see what I can do in April."

"The flight booking site is down, and none of my calls are getting through. I hear there's been some ransomware attack."
With my mom, I sometimes have to just tell her.  "We'll see."   In some ways, I feel guilty for giving her false hope.  But, I don't think it's healthy for either one of us to just keep arguing about it.
Regarding the video chat: I would just do it without any discussion on it beforehand. Get her on your laptop and then walk in and say "look who wants to visit with you". Be prepared for some confusion on his end, during the call or after. If it's not too much trouble setting it up, I would try it a few times. 

Meanwhile, tell some lies or "exaggerated truths" such as: no one is allowed to fly right now because of the virus, doctors are saying elderly should not fly now or visit anyone that has traveled , anyone that flies has to quarantine for 2 weeks afterwards and he wouldn't be able to see his sister. Something along those lines... Then you are not the bad guy. Rather than repeated discussions, I might whittle it down to "we can't fly now because of the virus. We'll have to wait until it's over." and then redirect to a new topic - over and over. He might not drop it for a while, but you can shorten the discussion to a one liner and refuse to engage on it beyond that.
Honestly, based on their ages, it seems like this would probably be the last time that they could ever be together. There has to be some relevance and understanding of that there for him.  I feel sadness for that and for his request to see her now. Dementia is so difficult. So is just getting older I guess.

On the other hand, I totally understand where you’re coming from. It is a logistical nightmare. To be able to organize that and manage it without major complications  would be extremely difficult without a significant amount of experience, funds and time. I would not want do it either.

Is he a veteran? I wonder if a veterans group would be able to help organize something like that. It still would probably require a whole lot of your time or other family members time. It may be too hard for him anyway.

In lieu of that, I agree with the others that just bringing him video chats with her would be better than asking his permission to do so. I would do that as often as possible as long as he was comfortable and understood what he was seeing on the screen. If he still asks to go I would just say “Yes, we’re working on that. Plans are in the works!!”. I don’t think additional explanation is really necessary or useful because the details and logic are not going to be connected.
If money is not an issue and you can take time off from work then take him.
Thanks I’ll look into this. As far as I know she is still living in her own home being cared for by her son. I have no idea of his technology skills. Going to have to see what they are capable of.
Really good ideas! Thank you
Thanks, yes…it is so hard. I know he is feeling that time is short. But he is sooo hard to deal with. Anyway, I’m going to offer to take him in a few months. I can’t possibly do it sooner than that. I also hav to check with my cousin and see if he would even allow a visitor in Covid-times…for all I know he doesn’t allow any visitors. I’ve never met him and we’ve never spoken and I haven’t seen my Aunt in probably 15 years. I’m dreading this whole thing.
I’m going to tell him I can take him but not until June. Hopefully just repeating that calm him down. Actually taking him is going to be a huge problem. He doesn’t do well at all away from home….he won’t sleep and he’ll be confused all the time about where he is, also he hates flying and was always extremely stressed about going on airplanes. It’s just a fu@king stupid idea.
The video chat is a good idea, even if you take him he more than likely will not remember. Taking him to see his sister one last time is for your sanity and then you will not live with any regrets after he is gone. Is driving an option.

I live in South Texas and part of our Mexican culture is to honor there request when they are possible.
Driving is not an option..it would mean far longer away from his home and he really does not do well in unfamiliar places. Also I don’t live where he lives so will be flying in myself to collect him and fly him to FLA. I just wish I thought it was going to make him happy to do this but the fact is that every step of going there and back is going to upset him and at the end of the day he’s going to say how unpleasant the whole trip was. Anyway…it’s all up in the air til I touch base with my cousin…for all I know at this point she may not be allowed visitors.
