I have a small family. My parents imigrated here and nobody followed. So there's my parents, my siblings and I and the kids that go with us.

My own brother is totally neglectful, praising me for caring for mum but OMG, DO something dude! He hasn't even phoned her except for Mother's Day or birthday and only sees her at Christmas because she is here at my place and he is invited. Ugh!

My other deceased brother had four children. I recently told them that my mum was in care and I got a very standard "Thinking of you all" from the granddaughter that was busting to see her nan only a month ago, a longer note from one grandson but no offer of visitation or help at all, and nothing from the other two. They had better NOT come sniffing around for belongings. I know one of them was working on Mum for dad's ride on mower and I put  stop to that. The same kid borrowed $600 from mum right after my dad died and I had to ask them for the money to be repaid after reading how they bought a new car, went on an overseas holiday, etc. Mum thinks he is wonderful because he paid it back, not realising that I ha to badger him. 

My family just sucks.
someone else on here once said how it’s painful when you realize you’re (in some cases, anyway) losing your whole family when a parent suddenly needs lengthy care and you’re the only one actually doing it.

I think about that a lot.  I realize I’m IT, for my mother.  And for me.  They’re not coming around now for her, and they won’t be coming around for me.  And I have to protect her financial assets and my own.

I have no advice aside from a very blunt “call dammit”.  I hope it works.  I do wish you (and all of us here) the best of luck with it too.
Yeah I can tell I am getting to that point. I guess it'd be best to say something sooner than later to avoid being overly worked up.

Incidentally, I rang today and he didn't want to talk! They've also gone from 3 named visitors to 1 primary carer (England).

He doesn't want to talk and only I can see him. This post is now nullified! 😂
lol woops!  ok then!
