How bad is your mother's dementia and how old is she? My dad had dementia and each year is PSA was up. It took a pretty good jump and his doctor said he probably had prostate cancer.  We refused a biopsy because of his dementia and would not treat if he had it. We weighed the quality of life he had vs going thru the process of even getting him thru a biopsy during covid. He had a brief hospital stay just prior to covid and one of us stayed with him 24/7, so he had a familiar voice and face, but he still had to be dosed with ativan to call him down

He passed June 5th at 90, at home on hospice. We took care of him 24/7 for 2 1/2 years
I would not prolong the life of my parents, both of whom have dementia. Main focus is emotional and physical comfort now.
Personally, I would not allow that type of procedure on my husband. I would not do anything which would prolong his life. Did you two have any discussions about what she would want before she got sick? Does she have a living will or anything to give you direction?
My mom had a cardiac cath procedure right around the time that she was beginning to show a few mild signs of dementia. This was December 2019 and she was 73 at the time. She had not been diagnosed with dementia prior to the procedure; however the stress of the surgery significantly exacerbated the dementia symptoms. She left the hospital a different person, and she never really improved, personality or cognitive-wise. But it did correct her cardiac/breathing issues. Her dementia progressed very quickly after the procedure; she passed about 1.5 years after, in May 2021. Her cause of death was dementia and failure to thrive - nothing directly cardiac related. 

I would talk to the doctors and weigh the pros and cons of both the cardiac piece and the dementia piece. I think it’s important not to undervalue the emotional and cognitive stress that the surgery may put on your mom. But, I also don’t want you to think that my mom’s story is what will happen for your mom.  You know your mom the best, and you know what she needs - you’ll make the best decision for her ultimately ❤️
She can’t make decisions, doesn’t know dates, but knows who I am. Only in her early 70s.

They want to repair her mitral valve in the catheterization lab, to ease her heart failure and I’m hoping she’ll be less winded, and perhaps walk a little more again. She had a heart attack last summer and has been largely bedridden ever since.

My condolences for the loss of your father. I’ve been taking care of my mother since 3 weeks before the pandemic was declared.
I'm so sorry. Daddy got discharged in January and Covid hit right after. It's hard, with dementia patients to know what the right thing or wrong thing to do. We had to learn to  walk the line between what was best for him vs what our instincts were to "make him better", which wasn't going to happen. We just wanted give him what he said he wanted after our mother died, which is to die at his home, in his bed and we gave him that. Kids, grandkids, great grands were there.

S/N 3 days after he died, I went to his house to let the dog out and he was dead....our version, daddy got his wings, my mother sent him to get all her favorite foods on his way to heaven. When he got there my mother asked where was Baxter, so he had to come back and get him

God bless and keep you...Dementia sucks
