I’ve wondered about things like that so much since moving in with my grandmother. We push water on her HARD (and have to, for sure), but when she’s dehydrated she gets so *weird*, all spacey and not making sense and very off. How many people in homes are showing signs of dementia because of dehydration? Like… if we weren’t on her about it ALL DAY, she would have to be on IV fluids to be getting any water.
Great news! Probably takes a huge weight off your shoulders.
Wow, this is very similar to the situation I’m in right now. My mom was in a care home for about 1.5 years and went downhill severely… then as a result of that she ended up in the hospital, then in a rehab hospital for a couple months and rebounded drastically for the better; like you said, became more like mom again. But then, sigh, for assorted reasons, we decided to move her to a highly rated and recommended nursing home… and she went downhill severely again (it’s been about 2.5 months now), and so even though it’s stressful on her (and myself) to move her, and I am considering it—but like you mentioned, it’s hard to tell if it’s their ailments just getting worse on their own vs something with the care. Always so many complications! :/
Sometimes good facilities are just not good matches for certain people. Their default treatment protocols didn't match what your mom needed. Kudos for moving her, and I'm so happy for you that you got your mom back
They seem to pick up some weird habits in homes. Especially hating showers for some reason. Amazing how something as simple as water can cause such a change.
I once read they use dehydration as a cheap palliative/painkiller - even if it makes the patients confused.
Thanks, yes it is. Still so much to figure out and deal with, but happy for her.
That does sound very similar. 

Have you looked into what meds she had in the hospital vs the homes?

I did learn, if someone is not visiting regularly, they do neglect/drug them up more many times. My experience is in Indiana and Houston, if yours is in either, I can maybe throw some suggestions out.

Imo, which is very limited, if she's doing better 1 place (hospital) vs another (home), it's probably the meds. The best references I've found, call elder law attorneys in the area, pay the $100 or so to talk with them for 30 minutes and see where they suggest. 

The other, I forget the exact term, sorry long day. Essentially retired nurses you can hire to check in on family in homes. They see the reality and can give some good advice. Can look it up again if you are interested in finding one.
85% of the homes in my province repeatedly abused and neglected residents over a five year span. 


https://www.cbc.ca/news/marketplace/are-nursing-homes-above-the-law-exposing-repeat-offenders-1.5771095

I don’t believe the ratios can be better in many places.
Somewhat agree, but giving 3 different anti-depressant medicines borders on malpractice. In no situation should that ever happen. Serotonin syndrome defines many of her issues before she left and are almost gone within a few days. 

Honestly believe at this point, they were just drugging her to make their jobs easier, which ironically, probably made their jobs harder.
We have the shower problem at home too! I think it’s a combo of a few things: getting cold after getting out of the shower (especially in winter), embarrassment (caregivers tend to hover for fear of slips and falls), and aforementioned fear of trips and falls.
I think it’s insecurity about falling. Mom felt more confident taking a shower once we installed a safety bar in her shower.
Ugh. That’s awful, but I believe it!
sorry for the late reply, things are still unfortunately not great 😓

Thank you for offering suggestions, but my mom’s all the way across the country. (and to make matters more complicated, I live 4000 miles away from her)

I know that they have her on pain killers at this new place but they say it’s because she is in constant pain (and I have observed her being in pain more, indeed, but very coincidental she started being in more pain after moving to this new place…), so I don’t know what can be done.

I recently did hire a nurse case manager (actually found them thanks to another post on this sub linking to a national directory) but it’s too soon to say how helpful she’ll be. I am gonna discuss with her about the pain killers, though.

And I spoke to the state’s elder ombudsman and they did advise me to file a complaint with the Dept. of Health about my mom’s current place (they majorly fucked up in an unrelated matter) as well as her previous care home that was SUPER negligent and we didn’t know til afterwards—this was the place she lived before her positive stint at the rehab hospital. We’re trying to move her out of the current place but so far having bad luck moving her back to the rehab hospital she did well at, so gonna start looking at other options soon if we can’t move her by the end of the month.

Anyhow, I hope your mom’s still doing good after leaving that bad facility. Take care.
I think you are right,   my father won't shower allowing his aide to help... He will only do it for me and 1 time a week. I protest but he doesn't care, will not do it more. He says he doesn't do anything to get dirty.  Drives me nuts but he is 100% with the program and bigger than me, I can not carry him in there and make him bathe.
Good luck, it's by far a quick or easy process.

  
Hiring an external nurse is great, I would have done the same had I learned about them sooner. I'm sure he/she will have some great input along with suggestions on better places to move her.
