You basically need a diagnosis of some kind to move forward. Have your dad take her to a specialist, or mention it to their GP. You may need to consult several specialists as well: the first psychologist we had was entirely useless, but we found a geriatric psychiatrist who figured out my dad's condition pretty quick. 

It might be an early diagnosis, which gives you more time to get everything in order. You'll need your dad to start handling all the finances, keeping tabs on her spending, etc. Eventually your dad will need power of attorney to make decisions on her behalf. 

She likely won't like any of it and can lash out verbally, call you names, call you evil, etc. Just part of the nightmare that is them losing functionality and rationality. She needs the care even though she will resist and resent it. 

Stick with it. She's still in there, probably increasingly scared, confused, and disoriented. Show her you love her - but make sure to get her the help she needs.
Gosh, this sounds really challenging for your & your family.
Denial is so normal though - no one wants to know they’re losing it you know? 
It’s so hard to get someone help if they don’t want it or won’t acknowledge they need it. Good on you for doing your best to get her the help she needs.
I don’t have much advice that I’m sure you’ve not already tried but I’ll reiterate. Just keep trying to be understanding and empathetic, she’s going through confusing changes. And keep trying to have conversations with her about these changes & monitoring her reactions. 
Best of luck
I would try and have a word with your doctor and maybe tactfully just say ‘shall we see the doctor just to get your memory checked’. My Mum became aggressive, and the fact it is out of character
It took us about 3 years to get my mum to agree to a memory test. She has been diagnosed with vascular dementia, but still insists they are wrong.…. It’s strange, but since the diagnosis I’ve noticed her getting worse, and even more depressed. Maybe it was the wrong thing to do… but you don’t get any help and support without a diagnosis.
Appreciate all the responses. My dad has managed to get her in to see someone. Thanks everyone. I love that I can ask a question on the internet to a relatively small community and get so many helpful responses
Unfortunately for me and my mom (67), I raised concerns about her health and tried to urge  her to see a doctor for about 4 years. We had to schedule an appointment behind her back because she was losing so much weight, and so we used that as the focal point of the appointment instead of it being about her memory. It was a whole ordeal, giving the doctor warning about the situation, informing him on her refusal to seek care in the past, all this stuff we did behind the scenes, and we basically had to wait until we had an good opportunity to get her the care she needs. I don't know if this would have worked if she was more lucid, but the decline in the past 3 months has been more drastic than before so we had to work with that. They always say its better to get checked out sooner than later, but sometimes that's not always possible. Keep advocating - if she gets upset by the proposition, looking back it was better for me not to agitate it. Look for an opening and run with it if you can. The most you can do is speak up, you can't force anyone to receive care as much as we know they need it. In all my years of advocating, I know I did the best I could with the circumstances I was given.
Thank you for the reply. Do you think it is worth sitting her down for a serious chat about it? I have already had private chats encouraging her to see a psychologist for anxiety etc. she was receptive to me, but has made no moves to actually see someone (also a lot of stigma re mental health  for her due to background, though most would consider her progressive on these issues/politically etc). The other option I’ve considered is calling her doctor, explaining the situation and asking the doctor to look into the issues on the next visit (she has to go every month or so for another issue).
Just saw that you guys were able to get her to see someone! Thats wonderful news, I wish you the best of luck on this journey - I'm at the beginning of mine
Your efforts in "sitting her down" might not work. Apparently a lot of alzheimer's / dementia patients have anosognosia, there they just can't understand that they have the disease, or recognize the problems/challenges they face.

When my mother got her Alzheimer's diagnosis from the neurologist, she just blew it off. "I don't have Alzheimer's, I'm perfectly fine." And all efforts to point out her many problems have completely fallen on deaf hears.

I think speaking with her doctor, or just emailing, about the issue before the appointment will be very helpful. My mother's doctor was incredibly understanding and assisted in whatever way she could.

Here's a link with more info. https://www.agingcare.com/articles/anosognosia-dementia-patients-cant-recognize-impairment-210090.htm
This is probably your best bet, especially if your mother has a decent relationship with her family doc to begin with. If you can get a referral to a geriatric neurologist or psychiatrist you'll be more likely to get treatments and help that can possibly stave the decline. And it may not be dementia -- there are other things that can produce similar symptoms that aren't necessarily permanent -- which is probably the tack you want when it comes time to discuss it with her.
