My spouse is in midstage alzheimers and I am amazed at how enhanced her hearing and vision has become. That plus the "in the moment" dimension of alzheimers has her constantly remarking about the beautiful skies and beautiful music. She qcan't stop dancing to the beats.
Helps make up for the other difficulties that come from lost memories.
My mom had observational color things.  She was constantly pointing out all the white cars she saw, saying how many more white ones there were than the rest of the cars.  She’s gone now but I get a kick when I see a whole bunch of white cars in the same area.
We (living with dementia) can get easily overwhelmed with color, movement, sounds, etc.  There is no such thing as background noise.  Instead of enjoying "big band" music (we taught ballroom dance) i can now only enjoy acapella or solo instrumentals.  Many of us have problems with the blinking linghts.  Almost ALL of us have difficulty with more than one conversation going on in a room. 

Much of these sensory symptoms are dependent on which type of dementia she has.  (Almost all of us are diagnosed with Alzheimer's initially, then diagnosis is revised as time goes on.)  Many sensory experiences are "larger than life".  That symptom needs considered in everyday circumstances such as birthday or holiday environment, conversation, etc
My mum often comments on the colours of the trees, or the grass, or the sky, or yeh, certain vehicles, all while we're driving.  She also often says 'that blue one' when it's green, and vice-versa, has a red/brown thing too.  Yep, something going on there.
This rings true for me with my wife. She’ll often comment on the blue sky (Arizona, it’s almost always blue) and the colors of leaves and flowers. Thanks, I’ll pay more attention to this, too.
This is interesting, my Mum said to me look what’s that green bird in the garden…. It was a UK Robin so brown and fawn with a red chest. It was in shadows but definitely not green

I also suspect there’s something else with the colours as she thought she had no toilet roll. It was in the holder white against white tiles
My mom just started doing this too!  She said just the other day how many white cars there are around these days and talked about it for 10 minutes!
Thank you so much for your insight!!
