I believe stage 4 cancer (any type) qualifies you for hospice.  You and your sister should talk privately before approaching your dad about this.  If your dad desperately wants to remain at home, he could get home hospice care.  Additional caring could be provided by a low-skill worker who is more like a "companion" that you, your sister, or your dad could private pay, at least for a while.

With the list of ailments your dad has, he has a very limited lifespan.  If he wants to continue smoking and drinking, I say let him.  (Though you might succeed in limiting the quantity.)  If you have not had end-of-life conversations with him, you should, and this could be facilitated with a hospice nurse or social worker.  Sometimes those conversations can help clarify issues.  His oncologist may have been promoting the aggressive treatments; but your dad may feel like giving up and at least enjoying his few remaining pleasures.  And it may help him with decision-making that he won't really enjoy those radical treatments.  If he decides to go ahead with them, a non-medical carer like the "companion" mentioned above could probably drive him to appointments.

Lots of unhappy things to think about, but usually any planning you can do is better than no planning at all.  Good luck.  I'm sorry about the loss of your mother and anticipated loss of your father.
UnsightlyFuzz has the best advice. I will only add that my husband had an earlier stage oropharyngeal cancer, the radiation was just off the charts painful, and he had a feeding tube. Opioids can't touch this type of pain so they prescribed lorazepam to make him less anxious about it. Great nutrition was actually easy because I'd toss everything in the Vitamix (raw kale, fruit, protein powder, tofu, etc) and squeeze the liquified food into the feeding tube with a restaurant style ketchup bottle.  My DH had all of his mental faculties and he still needed me to do this because he was so distracted by the pain.  Fortunately I worked remotely from home. (He survived and is now 4 years out with doctors saying a recurrence is unlikely.)

Bottom line: your father needs onsite help and it's too much for you.
https://www.payingforseniorcare.com/resources/locator\_tool
Did the pain compound after several sessions? So far my dad hasn’t been complaining of pain, but I’m sure it’s coming.
YES. If it's the same type of treatment the pain will increase a lot. We were amply warned about the pain in advance. My husband says it was actually even worse for at least 2 weeks after radiation ended. I got some icy hot type spray which was just topical relief and I'd spray his neck with it. He had an awful lidocaine mixture to gargle with but it did not help much. At one point he he stopped me at home and asked, "is this real life? How can it be possible for this much pain to be happening?" I say this not to scare you but to prepare you. 

In a weird coincidence a friend had an almost identical diagnosis and treatment a few months before my DH  (infusions with a more standard chemo while DH had Erbitux), she also reported the same terrible pain AND she had a splendid recovery.  

Feel free to DM me.
Thank you so much for your replies.
Good luck to you and your father. I wouldn't wish this on anyone, but the recovery rate is very good. That helps get through the pain.
