I’m glad you are seeing a doctor about it. It could be as “simple” as stress. Having a loved one dealing with FTD is certainly stressful. I do think worrying about my husband has affected my memory and cognitive function some. The brain can only do and deal with so much at a time. I think I’m pushing it to do more than it can easily do. Perhaps you are the same.
I'm 44.  I forget the names of things alot.  Like for example, I'm excellent at Jeopardy.  But the past few years, I still know most of the answers on Jeopardy but cannot think of the name of the things.  It's like the word is hanging right in front of me just out of my grasp.  Then when the answer is said, I'm like arrrghh I knew that.  I chalk it up to too much weed and ecstasy in my 20's.  But after taking care of my dad this past week I'm terrified.

I will not get this disease.  Period.  I am actually so scared about it I am trying to find where Euthanasia is legal and what that is required to get that done.  Also, how do I get tested?  Is there even a test for it?
[deleted]
I'm also 32 and I've attributed caretaking for my mom to some of my random moments. The amount of stress and lack of sleep ive had in the past year and a half has mentally drained me...But when I'm back in my own space for a few days and can mentally recharge I feel completely normal again and all of the "how the hell did I miss that last week" type of thoughts take over. I do believe I'll decline from mental exhaustion, but not from this disease.
Definitely see a doctor. I've had brain fog, vision issues etc and I've recently been diagnosed with early pre menopause. I have a consultation next month and can't wait to get the hormones I desperately need. I did have concerns around dementia because my mum has it, but it's vascular and probably more linked to her mini stroke rather than a hereditary type. Thing is that menopause untreated can lead to dementia among other things, so it's best to get checked out. Good luck.
There are moments where I feel the same (can’t come up with the right words, forget names etc.). My grandmother and mother have dementia, so it runs on my mom’s side. Tbh I will take a 21 and me genetic test this year to rule out if I have the enzyme that is linked to dementia.
I mean, if you're really worried about it you should go see a specialist.
I have an appointment Tuesday as like you dementia runs in my family and at 52 I’m showing signs. So is my 50yr old sister. I was told I could be tested for the gene but refused it as I didn’t want to know but now I’m showing signs I cannot ignore it. Like you I’m paranoid.
Are you feeling stressed?  (perhaps especially after hearing about your mom's diagnosis and hearing it has a 'hereditary' component).  Moderate to high levels of stress can cause all sorts of psychological symptoms, memory problems such as misplacing things and forgetting something that happened recently are classic.  

You could try reducing your stress (might help, can't hurt).  An effective way I've found are meditation breaks, periods of just sitting in a quiet setting for 20 minutes or so (30 works even better for me), trying not to dwell on anything at all except your breathing, which should be consciously controlled to a relaxed, slow pace.  The first few days of trying this are likely the hardest, most people can readily adapt to it after some practice.

The net result for me has been:  I sleep better, am not 'on edge' nearly so much, and the day's bumps and annoyances have far less weight and impact on shaking me up.
Get all your thyroid stuff tested. Stress can also
Make you forgetful!
If your criteria is that you are forgetting things that were more relevant to your life years ago, keep in mind too that we just tend to have more trouble retrieving old information over time, as the longer we love the more collective information there is to sort through. More people we used to know. A longer and longer list of names of old friends and acquaintances to sort through. The more information that is stored the more our brains have to sort through when we retrieve information. And the longer we go with information not being relevant the less likely we are to be able to recall it easily. For example through college I could still remember how to do long division, which I hadn’t used actively since high school. But in the years since that information has gotten more and more distant. If I use memory cues of looking up the technique, it will come back for a short time. But quickly it becomes hard to retrieve again. I can’t remember names of classmates, but looking at photos or yearbooks will trigger memories I had completely lost. So some of the loss of those kinds of things may just be a matter of memories getting farther and farther out in time and becoming more distant, such that the retrieval pathway weakens and gets hard for your brain to travel.
My mom has dementia, like her mother before her. One of her sisters is headed down the same path, just basnt gotten as far. The youngest sister is terrified and so am I. I'm just hoping I take after my dad's side in this  respect.  

What can ya do, though.  I take fish oil and hope for the best.
I’m worried about it for sure. My mother’s cousin had it, she has it. They say depression in your 20s points to a higher incidence of dementia later in life and I was in bad shape back then. Oh and I have MS which causes brain shrinkage. I’m in my 40s and already when I’m tired I get disoriented and can’t make decisions. It doesn’t look good for me.  I’m alone. My mother and aunt had devoted caring partners who cared for them. I don’t have that or kids.    

People mean well and try to tell me that it’s not a sure deal. But for me it’s like when I got the results of my MRI and the lesions were present and that meant MS and so I knew, before the dr gave me the official diagnoses, I feel the same way now about this.   

Anyway I push it out of my head and focus on today.
Happy you went to the doctor. Any chance you’re ADHD?
Sorry you are dealing with this. If you are sure your mom has hereditary FTD you can enroll in the ALLFTD study which has sites all over the US https://www.allftd.org . You would see an expert in genetic FTD. Most neurologists will know nothing about it.
[deleted]
I'm 53 and beginning to notice things in myself that I saw with my mother who had dementia. I am very concerned as well. I'm trying to figure out where to start for testing etc.
I take care of my Uncle, (he's on hospice now) he, my Dad and Aunt all have had or passed from dementia, I had his doctor do a genetics test to see if his was inherited, it wasn't. 
They all have type two diabetes, and lived isolated lives with no exercise. 

I did not take the test myself because it can mess up you getting Long term care insurance,
It was covered by Medicare, so have your Mom tested, I also can be forgetful but like others I feel it's stress.
I’m in a Lewy Body Dementia support group. I actually looked up if DLB was contagious. 

At my group, I learned that most caregivers had dementia symptoms but it was due to the stress, not due to brain disease.
Would you mind reporting back when you find out if it's legal and what's required? 

Sounds like we're in similar boats. I will not put my wife through this (again!). She's already going through it with her mom while I deal with it with my own mother. 

We've had enough dementia in the family to last us a lifetime.
There are thought to be things you can do to slow or prevent dementia’s impact. These include diet, exercise, sleep, learning something new and socialising. There is some hope.
I just got over COVID a few weeks ago (around the time everything started)
Where can you get these test?
I’ve been also limiting my Iron intake as well as my trans/saturated fats.
Thank you for the information! I’m sorry about your mother and I share that exact feeling of guilt when I talk to my sister.  Best of luck and thanks again!
You are incorrect. Apoe is associated with traditional Alzheimer’s. It’s also not fully penetrant and is merely a risk gene. APP, PSEN1 or PSEN2 are the genes associated with early onset Alzheimer’s - and they are 100% penetrant.

FTD can be hereditary in a number of genes but the most common are C9orf72 , MAPT, and GRN.
[deleted]
[23 and me](https://www.23andme.com/dna-health-ancestry/)
[deleted]
Thank you SO MUCH for sharing this. This has caused me quite a bit of anxiety and I was overwhelmed with where to start researching this. 

Medical POA was going to be my first step, but i know beyond that, everything with dementia seems to fall in a gray area because there's no clear place to draw the line of when you are no longer of "sound mind". 

I know that with my mother, it was only recently that she was finally officially diagnosed, but i noticed she was already showing symptoms almost 10 years ago.
To be clear, this test is likely not for FTD, just dementia in general. You have to go to a genetic specialist to get tested for the FTD gene as far as I’m aware. I debated getting tested and started the process but decided to not go through with it.
https://youtu.be/v_ONFix_e4k

I found this video useful in making me feel a little bit more in control.
That is correct. It’s the start.
[deleted]
The only things I’d suggest adding to your list are socialising and learning something new. The theory is that these stimulate new neural connections allowing your brain to become more resilient as there are redundancies in there which are effective when damage occurs.
