I mean she’s in her 90s all you can really do is cherish the time you have left with her. If you can be with her do it take the time off work or travel if necessary you will never regret spending time with your loved ones when they are gone. Even if she doesn’t remember who you are she will see someone who is by her side and I would hope that would be comforting.
We all have a finite time on this rock. Enjoy those around while you can because you never know when you wont be able to ever again. 

90 yrs with dementia... yeah man. It's probably not too far off. Sorry for your pain. It sucks. Dementia is hard to deal with. A shell is all that's left at the end. Remember her at her best. That's how she remembers you! It sounds like you had a pretty good relationship with her.
It’s possible she’s not eating because of dementia. Her caregivers may have to give her liquid nutrition. Something along the line of Ensure but they have a lot of products out there, including ones more healthy, certified organic etc.
Consider palliative care if she's not eating. It may not seem so, but it may be the most compassionate choice at this point. This is one indication that the body may be shutting down.
So, I had read that quite a few times people with dementia stop eating is frankly because they forget to eat/forget the feeling of being hungry/don’t trust people who are feeding them.

Perhaps, if she does recognize your grandfather still have him take some of her favorites and eat with her but with no expectation of her eating. Maybe with some of their plate/flatware so it’s more familiar…

My MIL started doing this when she was in the hospital and I always picked up her favorite food, would eat some before visiting her..then go there “stuffed”…ask her to hold onto the food and if she wanted some she could finish it so it didn’t go to waste…seemed to work.
It's really hard to know without speaking to her doctor. Like other people have said, I think taking the time to go anyway could be a good way to find out/gauge for yourself/hedge your bets? 90s though! Wow. If she enjoyed seeing your kid then maybe take some pictures with you? It's one of my mum's favourite things to do is look through photo albums. 

According to my mum's diagnosis, she has moderate-sevre dementia, but I reckon in hindsight, shes had it for a number of years. Her eating has always been an issue and when I took over her care, he barely ate a thing, had difficulty swallowing, often choked on food and didn't really want to eat. My brothers and I began to worry that she didn't have long to go.

She's been in care since October and she's eating again. Not loads, but we steer clear of things that require a lot of chewing or can hurt her gums or it sets her back. I've not seen her choke on food for months. She LOVES ice cream and says it cools her throat. She's even put on some weight.

I don't know if any of that helps. Wishing you the best.
Hi I would like to share my experience with you. Hopefully yours would not turn out to be the same.

[PEG feeding tube experience with Alzheimer’s](https://www.reddit.com/r/Alzheimers/comments/q03kek/complications_from_peg_feeding_tube/)
To put it bluntly: it's best to assume she's not coming back from this. Both advanced age, and advanced disease.

I'm sorry.
Thinking of you and your family- even if she doesn’t know who you are cherish you time left with her 💞 good luck, stay strong
Not a doctor and this may not help OP’s grandma but might help someone else, my 81 year old aunt lost her appetite, stopped getting dressed, grew confused and kept losing her words - seemed like dementia. Her doctor prescribed Mirtazapine. I wasn’t expecting it to do anything but 3 days later, she’s hungry and eating! She’s not eating anything healthy but, at this point, we’re happy with the pancakes, muffins and ice cream. We gave her anything she wanted. We will work on more nutritious foods in a day or two. Just happy she got her appetite back.
My grandma has had noticeable dementia for about 3 years now. A month ago she didn’t know who any of us were, but she was still able to make small conversation and walk around with her walker and eat very small portions. She started losing her appetite about a year ago. Fast forward to today, shes been in a comatose state for about 4 days now. We’ve tried everything including a sternum rub to wake her up and nothing. At this point we’re just looking in on her every couple hours to see if she’s still breathing. She probably has a week at the most left. She’s in her 90s a well. Please cherish the time you have with your grandma…dementia is such a horrible disease and it’s scary how quickly someone can go from being *ok* to being near death. God bless x
Yeah I hope I can see her soon. Thank you.
It always feels like too short of a time doesn’t it? No matter how long. Thank you 🙏🏽
My mom is in her 70s so I can't exactly relate 100% here, but is possibly a milder case of Ops situation. 

I try to give my mom as much independence as I can, so I don't interfere with her meals since she does everything herself...until I noticed all she was eating was bread and cereal, despite be stocking her fridge with fresh fruits and veggies and her pantry with all the same dry goods she normally uses in her meals. She tells me she had eggs and apples but the carton is still full and the same amount of apples are on the table...

Now I make it a point to ask her if she can make me a veggie omelette or a traditional meal full of lentils and beans and stuff and she hops right on it because she loves feeling like she's being helpful. The only problem is that with work my sister or I can't monitor her every meal despite living with her in shifts. 

It gets harder when we can't be there all the time but knowing if we give her a task that she can complete is nice.

OP I wish you all the best.
Thank you so much for the information 🙏🏽
And sometimes just the opposite. My wife forgets she has eaten and will sometimes eat 2 or 3 times. She is by no means overweight so I just tell her to eat if she's hungry.
Im hoping my grandpa can convince her. They always ate together and one day she just shut down. Im not sure what the exact issue was. Thank you for the tips.
Oh that’s great to hear. I hope we’re that lucky. Thank you for the information. Good vibes to your mom 💜
I read it and there are a few things that are sounding familiar, unfortunately. Thanks for the info. I’m so sorry about your grandma.
It sounds that way. Thank you for the honesty.
Thank you 🙏🏽
Thank you. The best to your mom as well.
