My mom absolutely loves those prepackaged protein and vitamin drinks, like Ensure and Boost. Try one of those, if you're able.
Not sure about the whole protein powder thing. I just let mum have her sweets and little things that make her happy. It's hard to get her to eat anything, so if it's ice cream and pudding over nothing else, that's what she has lol. Before she moved into care, we had to give her little ensure drinks. Her nutrition was dire, she was drinking and looked like a skeleton. Went to see her last night and she looks like a new woman. Still only slight, but not near death. We lost dad last year as well - she keeps saying she has no man and no house. So, I reckon too much of a sweet thing is fine as long as she's got a little bit of joy in her life. She's looked after in every other way. I like her to have some choices.
I'm not sure about mixing it in with coffee creamer, because she might notice the taste difference and toss the creamer/coffee thinking they've just gone off. It could also change the consistency and texture. I did use whey protein mixed with milk and ice cream as a bulking tactic when my dad needed to gain some weight back post surgery, and I'll toss it in fruit smoothies sometimes for a bit extra protein. I get chocolate flavored, so it's more like a treat than something 'healthy' so my dad is more likely to eat it.
I get what you're trying to achieve, but unless your grandmother drinks a lot of coffee, the uplift in her protein intake is going to be fairly minimal. You can get protein rich creamery, by the way, but baking with protein powder sounds like a better option. And maybe something you can do together?

All the best to you both.
Perhaps a high protein morning milkshake?
Seems to small to matter.    I got powder mix from a company called Huel.    My Mom would drink a litter of water in an hour when I gave her Huel mix.    She really, really loved the Chocolate flavor. 

Heul  is a meal replacement product, so you can have a liquid meal instead of sitting down.  I found it  by talking to weight lifter on how they add good calories to their diet to bulk
I've mixed protein powder into baked sweets I haven't noticed much of a taste difference. Bulletproof unflavored also mixes well into coffee and juice.
Let her enjoy her coffee and sweets
Protein is extremely helpful slowing cognitive decline. Maybe try to see if she'd like something like https://www.target.com/p/premier-protein-shake-cafe-latte-12pk-11oz/-/A-81858684. Dad has one with breakfast as part of his routine and loves it.
i use protein powder lots.  My husband mixes up a week's worth at a time, but we dilute it with cashew milk, add baking chocolate and stevia, and a couple other things.  Then i have some diluted half-and-half with milk, and the other WAS diluted half-and-half with water.  Now that my smells and taste are mostly gone, the protein powder has lost most of its appeal, even at nearly full strength, but i still like the "coat the throat and tummy" feeling.
Not in coffee gross. Try a collagen creamer and mix the powder into a shake or something. Collagen creamer will
Be great for her brain.
So whatever they eat is what works, so its beat to be flexible. We were making her milkshakes with protein powder from bjs/costco and peanut butter powder
I would suggest Ensure or Boost. My grandmother will go through 3 or 4 ensures in a day, and we have a few different flavors so she can have some variety. But she’s the same way with sweets, if we can’t get her to eat anything else she will always take a honeybun
Check the labels! The Premier Protein and Muscle Milk drink products actually contain a lot more protein than Ensure or Boost - 30 grams - and both of them have far less sugar than Ensure or Boost products. 

Consider adding unflavored collagen peptides to her coffee if you don’t think she is getting all of the essential amino acids. My aunt also takes probiotics because one of her medications tends to make her constipated. I sometimes add a scoop or two of an unflavored, powdered egg protein to home made muffins and cakes.

We just got back from my aunt’s doctor because she doesn’t have much of an appetite right now. She’s 81, her blood sugar levels are fine and her doctor said she can have all of the cakes, scones, pastries, and ice cream she wants all day long because he is more concerned about her losing weight and getting weak than anything else. He’s also fine with her eating her favorite meal several times a week - a double cheeseburger, large fries and a strawberry shake. She takes a vitamin but I’m looking into a vitamin powder drink mix because they may be absorbed better (she has stomach issues). I know nothing about those fruits & veggie supplements but will try to research those soon. 

Best of luck with your grandma but I highly recommend the 30 gram Premier Protein drinks - they have a nice variety of flavors! And, if she’s like my aunt, she probably needs the extra protein.
Protein powder will often clump & curdle when mixed with hot liquid.  You’re better off with single serving tetrapak protein drinks
Yeah, I keep my dad's little fridge stocked with Ensure - he'll often ask for those, whereas a glass of water is a heavier lift.
We have those. She's not taken an interest. I could probably try doing like a "milkshake" or iced coffee with one when it warms it up. She's got covid symptoms now hence my lack of reply for 24 hours. Prior to short supplies and worsening condition, she would live off of those Starbucks bottle drinks so something along those lines.
Yeah we've kind of felt that way for a while too.  She had gotten pretty bad about staying dehydrating and only eating a little sweet thing all day or like mints. We got her a caretaker m - f during the day and that helped a lot compared to before when we'd bring her meals only to be tossed ( she ate at different times and we could never get it right ).  She still took a few falls back to back and almost died . She was in a facility for 2 months and that got her on track like your mum where she would eat on a routine again. The issue is back at home it's easier to neglect the protein but we still are glad for any eating . Just don't want her to decline faster than she has to. She has covid symptoms that started today. I should have noticed but I kept checking her temperature when she said she was cold and it was normal. Oxygen too. But she woke up in a mood and got her coffee then when back to bed. She came out for about 20 mins and right back in. She barely watched TV and was being more over the top about how she wasn't well but that happens when she's scared about being sick. Right before dinner, the fever hit . It broke eventually with OTC meds but I'm still worried.
Right.  She's all about the sweet treats and luckily she isn't remotely diabetic.  The downside is when you have a smaller appetite and fill up on sweets , it doesn't leave room for protein so I was thinking the same kind of thing as you for when I'm here to make it. There's someone else here part of the week but I could probably show her if I find out something that works . The creamer was just an idea because she has an empty jar that looks like her current one and I could do just a little . If she thought it went bad , I'd refill with the straight creamer and not lose a lot is all. You're probably right about the texture. She drinks instant coffee which isn't my thing and already puts miralax in it. It looks a little strange begin with lol.
Thank you.  She does her cup of instant religiously every morning.  She sometimes does another cup later in the day. You're probably right though. She told me last night she wanted to bake today but she became ill today. I hope we get the chance.
She's been doing her coffee routine forever and usually doesn't want much before lunch. I think I'll try it when this cold snap passes in the afternoon.
Thank you. I'll look at that one.
I'm not trying to take them away ? I literally just restocked it yesterday so she'd have the variety she likes. I was just trying to keep her from declining. She was in a facility for 2 months and does not want to go back. While she's still mentally having decent days , I just wanted her to have the strength to do some of things she wants to do on the good ones. She didn't slow down before the pandemic. Even when her body said to chill , she didn't and she had a major TBI . She survived despite being 90 and she just wants to feel a little stronger. She's reached that side of things though where she will refuse to do anything if in a mood just because someone else suggested it so I was trying to help in a way where she doesn't become her own obstacle or when eating is hard . I understand what you're saying though and I've always thought that she should eat what she wants.
This premier protein is my mom's favorite too.   They have a lot of different flavors and all are pretty good.  I keep some for myself too, they're good when I overslept.

Costco has the best price I've found.

As for coffee creamer, I think they make vanilla flavors of non thickening fiber powder now.  That helps her too
That's a good looking one. I tried the premier drinks a long time ago because it was the only one I could find at the time without sucralose in it ( for me - it gives me a migraine). She used to drink the Starbucks frappacinos before they were out of stock all the time so I figured taking her instant coffee and protein powder blended with something to sweeten it would be good but those look way easier.
I didn't know lol. I knew people did it and she drinks instant /uses powdered creamer which are both gross to me . I'll look at the collagen. I'm hesitant with anything that is more like a supplement because the person in charge of the medical is really judgemental about supplements and won't even ask the doctor if basic ones are okay .it's frustrating but it is what it is. He may get mad if it isn't protein but who knows .
I forgot about the pb powder. She does love peanut butter candy. She used to make a peanut butter and jelly cake that I wish I had mastered before she forgot how . The frosting is tricky.  Anyway ,  that gives me a lot of ideas for the baking and shakes so thank you !
We have ensure and some other brand. She stopped drinking them but I will try to do better about finding different times to offer them. She started running a fever today so I may have to reintroduce something like that tomorrow anyway if it keeps going this way. She tried to eat dinner ( I made roast simmered in broth , mashed potatoes , squash casserole and rolls with honey butter ). She really wanted to eat because she loves all of that stuff but she just wasn't up to it.
I will! I was just allowed to do the shopping as a pickup order this week as opposed to just bringing food I bought with my groceries or using cash and going in person rushing to get back so I was able to take my time.  I only went with the Orgain one this time because I don't think it has artificial sweeteners and she does better when I eat with her . She's fine with Splenda , it just doesn't agree with me. She's like your aunt though - she can have as much as she wants at this point . No blood sugar issues . Vitamins are an uphill battle because it's not up to me and the person who takes her to the doctor isn't as into it . They probably tried for a while before I got involved with the every day  and she used to be super non compliant before she had to have someone 24/7. She takes a salt tablet now that I feel like she would trash if she took her meds alone because she makes a big to do about it. Your aunt's favorite meal sounds like something my grandmother would be fine with.  She isn't as picky as she used to be since her 2 month rehab stay and between the lady who comes part of the time and does the southern cooking thing , me doing random things that she doesn't do, and my uncle doing takeout she's got options . I don't eat a lot in one sitting either so we can split most things.  The biggest issue is protein and outside of doing beans or greens every meal , this seemed like the easiest way since she has her spells where any regular meal gets picked at.  Btw I saw a lot more variety on the vitamin supplements or meal replacement that had the fatty acids , vitamins and protein even just off the shelf at the store now . Some were affordable on most budgets. I really wanted to do the probiotic blends but I'll have to ask . She's doing miralax in her coffee every day and it just seems like coconut oil, magnesium, and probiotics would be a good option. She has a lot of leg and back pain plus magnesium , b6 and zinc are kinda the Neuro basics but I can't add stuff like that unless the doctor says .
My mom was big on adding the bottled protein drinks (Pure Protein I think) to her hot coffee as you described. She liked it, but I couldn’t develop a taste. 
I have gotten my dad hooked on protein ‘shakes’ with Orgain chocolate protein powder from Costco, mixed with frozen coffee ice cubes and Silk. (Ends up my breakfast many days too). It tastes like Nestle Quick plus helps him with constipation — added bonus ;)
I hope she's on the mend and pulls through without too much suffering. Good luck with everything else as well. What a thing to be going through 😕
I think just stirring protein powder into her coffee would be disgusting because I’ve taken enough protein powders in my life to know! But you could make her a coffee shake with a chocolate protein powder and coffee and a frozen banana and that would be god damn delicious!

Throw 1/4 avocados in there and it’s a creamy haute messsss and delicious.
The Orgain dark chocolate almond is my personal jam. When I first tried just the almond milk I was blown away at how good it was ....reminiscent of childhood yoo-hoo with richer flavors . I mix just what you describe or another plant protein. My grandmother, however , likes to make a big to do about how "she doesn't like chocolate" if it's anything she didn't personally pick out. It doesn't stop her from eating Reece's, Ferraro and such but it is what it is lol. I got the vanilla to make her caramel and vanilla variety along those lines.
Thank you.  I was just going to write a general update but it may be a mute point. I was able to get her in the car to go get tested but she got sick and wanted out. Her mouth was drooping and I was concerned about a stroke so I had her son who is power of attorney call paramedics and meet me at the house . I was trying to keep her from falling . I got her back inside and they came out  . Her temp was 101 right before but was 98 when they checked it . My family ended up getting a fight while I'm trying to talk to the paramedics. It's been a long day.  My uncle basically insinuated that I was exaggerating how sick she was with the fevers and weakness when her bedroom is literally on a live feed. My mom was able to find quick screens . She's positive. I'm negative. I feel so powerless. I know how to care for someone when they're sick as I've been chronically ill for a long time. She's comfortable with me. He seems to think this is no big deal and I don't even know what to say to it . She is being very sweet to me.
These situations can be stressful and frightening for everyone involved. I found it very difficult to communicate with my mum's brothers and sisters about her state of mind. One of them enjoys telling me every time they go to visit her that she seemed totally fine (as in no dementia?!) And she was completely herself. I think denial and avoidance are sometimes easier for people to adopt rather than face the fear of reality. I've done a lots of biting my tongue. All you can do is look after her the best way you know how. People won't always agree with you and some may even be apathetic and feel it doesn't matter that she has covid. Just you keep doing you. She obviously knows you care about her.
The denial is definitely an issue as is the fact that she can get it together long enough to seem better than she normally is for less than an hour. The drama was unnecessary ancient history but you're right about being amplified by the stress . I called my friend and vented like I'm in so much physical pain all of the time and I have immunity issues yet here I am in the thick of this day in and day out. The only thing I ask is for those of sound mind not to add to it and I've given up on expecting anyone to take care of me when I'm ill but I want others to be okay. It's okay today though.  It's been rough but when my uncle also tested positive tonight we've moved past the point of denial. He stayed with her so I could have a nap and agreed to go to the doctor tomorrow so if we make it through the night without it getting worse I'm happy . I'm doing all I can to keep the covid from turning into pneumonia . I'll retest myself tomorrow when she's gone. I can't tell when I'm that sick because of the normal pain and random fevers but maybe I had it before outside of the window I tested and have some antibodies. Before she fell asleep , I checked her vitals and tucked her in. She looked up at me and said " I sure do love you (my name)." She's been calling me similar sounding names of other relatives and "that girl" for months. It was sweet.
