I think people prefer to avert their eyes and ignore unpleasant things like someone of failing health rather than face it head on. My mom (71) had TONS of friends thru a social group a decade ago, she was usually the biggest helper/organizer of events, driving people there, making cakes etc. 4 years ago she was diagnosed with Parkinson’s and now has mild dementia and very very very few people make the effort to stay in contact (including family). C-19 didn’t help either. It is very sad because she is/was such a social person.
Sadly the answer is yes, and not just seniors but anyone who needs care apparently. After my husband had his stroke all of his friends and coworkers slowly fell away. A lot of the times, I feel like they don’t want to face their own mortality, and they don’t want to see a person they once saw thriving in an incapacitated state. Also, I feel like people think “CareGiver is doing doing such a good job and they never complain. They got this!”

Speak up and ask for help, accept whatever help you can get. Good luck.
[deleted]
Our culture is so broken. I think the answer is yes and it's so sad. My dad lives with me but I have supports only because he has a pension and can afford it.
I’m sad to hear this, but as an only child caregiver I know exactly how you feel.
I think this is the case. And with covid it's just so much worse. If you can't talk on the phone easily it's really easy to become isolated. I have vowed that once this is over and I come across a person in my position, I will find a way to actually help the caregiver and the person needing care. I had a sibling visit for an hour today and I had to cram in months of errands into an hour away from the house. I as speed around the market, I ran into a family friend who said to me" you are going to heaven" it was just an off hand comment, they probably said it to the check out girl too, but it did mean something to me, as someone remembers we are still around and kicking. It's easy to feel forgotten.
Well in my case it was a red light emergency until I stepped up and then when I did that everybody else just felt like they could relax I guess, leaving me with everything. So I get it.
I strongly feel this way. I am my great uncles caregiver. He was diagnosed with vascular dementia almost 2 years ago and recently has gotten worse.                 It has been an absolute struggle not only learning how to take care of him but to get what little family we have left involved.  I also feel Alzheimer's and dementia are not talked about enough especially how bad the disease suffers the person with it and the caregivers who give up so much. I am truly sorry Op for what you and your mom are through with this devastating disease.
It's easy to forget seniors, especially if they have dementia.  They probably don't reach out themselves much.  We all live busy lives.

With regard to other family members, as long as one has accepted the responsibility, everybody else tends to fade out, except when it comes to criticizing how you should do things differently.
💯 

Elders and sick people in general, most will steer clear of. 

I’m embarrassed to say that I was that way with my grandma, years ago. I didn’t know how to deal with her memory loss. I didn’t think she would be the same person. Didn’t know how to talk to her. I was actually afraid. Of what exactly, I don’t even know.

Eventually my mom said, “there’s no point in talking to her”. This was years ago. I still feel AWFUL about it. 

Now I’m a caregiver to my dad. There wasn’t anything to fear. Wish I’d known that years ago.
Yes, not many people call my 97 yo dad. My dad's high school friend and old fishing buddies still call him, but my cousins and uncles and aunts don't check in very often. My own friends also virtually never call - a few of them have stopped by once in the last year. It's sad, but it's some kind of societal thing regarding mortality. And yet ironically there is still no humane legal way to end one's life if we are afraid of dying in a pool of our own pee. Sorry but yeah. My dad is covered but looking at the future after this experience and how badly my aunt and dad have needed me, I just have to SMH.
Yeah, it’s weird. 

My siblings and I all came together for my mom when she had cancer. She then had a stroke from her first round of chemo, and she died 6 months later. We never fought and worked together as a team. We all visited my mom regularly, and cleaned her house out, sold it, shared and negotiated mementoes that we cherished, harmoniously. I know this isn’t usually the case and we were very lucky to have rallied together and not against each other.

I also had a VERY strained relationship with my mom, but I talked to her almost everyday until her death after she had her stroke. Bc of her stroke, she didn’t remember the day before. Each day was like a new day. We had the same conversation everyday and I will always cherish that. She was so happy to hear every day that I bought a house and was in graduate school. Her friends also we’re supportive and there for her. Her memorial was amazing. 

I am sorry you are dealing with this. It’s not fair to you or your mother. She is lucky to have a least you. Once she is in assisted care, it will help. My mom made friends in her assisted living home. It goes a lot better as a caregiver when we take time for ourselves, where we can. Please try and not feel guilty for that 💕
I’m dealing with the same. I just recently drove 1800 miles to help my mom with Parkinson’s now with dementia. My husband was here for a short period but he had go back home to take care of personal business.  It sucks so bad. I’m laying here going crazy without him. My stepfather only finally told me how bad things were because the rehab refused to release her home if there wasn’t someone here. My mom was not a social person but my dad is. I totally agree with others most people feel so uncomfortable facing getting old they forget about seniors. My Dad used to have a lot of friends but as he got more health issues they went away. Feel free to message me if you need to talk.
yes and no. my mom had a pretty active social life before she fell ill and i had to come take care of her. A few people visited here and there when she came home from the hospital but but those visits were few and far between. 

Family did call and check in a lot, but only one person came out to help, and only for three days. I was totally on my own with caregiving - the day to day, managing appointments, advocating for her, all of it - and totally on my own with the more mundane aspects of running a household, like cleaning and cooking. 

People have lives, and I get that, but yeah. That's how it is.
This is sad. :(
Yes, I don't even know if people are doing it on purpose. There are only so many times you can ask how someone is doing, there's nothing "easy" you can do to make them better because so much of the chores involve detailed knowledge of the situation and/or day-to-day living (which they don't want to commit to), and the elderly basically keep getting worse never better, and it's really hard to watch. And they don't really want to spend their own money on someone who's not going to be there appreciating it in the future.

You may find it helpful to keep a wishlist of sorts, tasks that are relatively doable by other people from a distance: like making a casserole, or researching what social services the patient may qualify for, or find a specialist doctor that takes Medicare etc/calling around during business hours, or booking/paying for a maid service or a handyman to repair something that needs it.

For example I have an aunt who is a doctor, she has 12-hour days but she contributes with money and her knowledge. For example she ordered a special air-inflated mattress pad that helps to prevent bedsores and had it delivered to the house, we didn't know such a thing existed.
My husband is very social too.  He benefits greatly from an adult day program he goes to ... refers to people there as his friends.  I think he will enjoy socializing when he goes to memory care in the foreseeable future.

If one is staying home, the isolation can be very severe.
I feel like I'm still new to this, even after a year and a half. I'm also so very sorry to hear about your husband. I hope he has a tremendous recovery.
It was shocking to me how my husbands 4 adult children were not involved with his critical Covid diagnosis. Except his daughter who visited me every Saturday for 3 months. She and I comforted each other through all the tough decisions. I yelled at his sons to visit when he was discharged home to hospice
My Husband had a severe stroke 15 yrs ago, the lasting issue was severe aphasia. Due to him not being able to communicate he lost all of his friends and his family refuses to even really acknowledge him. Our son is still very close to his Dad. I hope that your husband makes a full recovery and that you have many years of laughs and love.
I felt that way with my grandma years ago scared unsure what to say regrets yes!
Thanks, I have considered day programs. She does do a work out class three times a week, so that helps.
