Various pillows. Not just a bed pillow, but a tiny one. A long cylinder shape. Dog bone shaped. Round. Firm. Soft. Okay, half he probably won't use, but your friend might find one or two perfect for something.
Maybe a Kindle? I don't know your budget, but they are nicely lit and you can adjust the text size. You could pair it with some kind of ebook subscription as well.
A sturdy lap tray for eating/propping stuff up on/writing/etc would be helpful.
Maybe an edible arrangement or ballons or fancy little cake delivered if not close enough to drop by yourself? Something more celebratory and less functional.
Something to put on the wall,to look at? We gave a friend an old enlarged photo of his hometown once
Digital picture frame. You can send the link to family and friends to add photos remotely. Got my mom one last year and it’s one of her favorite things! Nice surprise to see new photos pop up and let’s her know people are thinking about her.
Does he have a rolling table meant for hospital beds?
We got my grandmother a Sony Walkman and a bunch of classical music CDs.  Even though the usual distribution method now is streaming or MP3s, the MP3 player might be physically or mentally difficult for an older person to use (tiny controls, have to be tech savvy).  She had no dementia, btw.

Something I recently gave my husband for his numerous aches and pains is a heating pad that automatically shuts off after 2 hours.  He was sleeping all night with an earlier generation heating pad and getting some skin reaction.

Something I've recently seen is a heating pad that is specifically shaped to go around the neck and over the shoulders - that looks really nice for someone who has pain in that area.
Large print crossword puzzle books, adult coloring books and colored pencils/markers, a DVD set of movies he likes, hard candy (if choking isn't a concern for him), hand-held electronic games if he has the mobility, books regarding historical events in his early life or something nostalgic for him.
Aaah, I didn't think about different shaped pillows! Nice idea. Thanks!!
Spouse likes "Tiny Pillow."
