So sorry you’re going through this. Do you all eat at the same time? That could help maybe and might mean you all eat together, unless she needs assistance with food. This way you can take turns maybe assisting - like one person does it one day, the other the next. 

She might be bored or lonely, so maybe encouraging having something to do might be good. It will get her mind off things.

Divide the portion into two and if she persists to want to have more, maybe give her the second portion after. 

Fill up the plate with salad and vegetables - couldn’t / doesn’t hurt to get in some healthy 5 a day. 

She might be mistaking thirst for hunger. Might also offer low calorie drinks too? 

Also, leaving healthy snacks about, like fruit maybe. She can snack on those. 

Could also speak with a Doctor and dietitian or a local dementia support service as they can give specialised advise too :)
Talk to her Dr. I have seen a few different conditions...mostly brain/neurological (and dementia could cause this)...where the function of switching hunger off/on stops working.

I took care of a young guy with mental/developmental disabilities that he had no switch to turn hunger off. His family had to keep the fridge and cupboards locked like you do. If things were not locked up, he would even try to eat frozen foods and raw meat. For his condition, sadly, there was nothing more they could do than to keep things locked up and to give me meals/snacks at regular times.

Depending on what is causing it, there could be potential for medication and/or behavioral therapy remedies. But you will not know until a Dr rules out potential underlying causes. It's a possibility if she is moving around/walking/pacing a lot, she could be burning more calories and thus hungrier. Or, something with her dementia (or other cause) could have triggered a higher metabolism, and her body needs the extra calories. 

Another thing I would recommend, even though you mentioned she sleeps a lot during the day...is to try to keep her awake during the day, and try to keep meals close to consistent in timing and size. If she sleeps all day and doesn't eat for 12 hours because she's been sleeping...of course she is going to be hungry and hunting for food, even if that time is in the middle of the night.

Also, as someone else mentioned...try keeping lower calorie snacks available for her to munch on. If she likes veggies, maybe have some celery, carrots, cauliflower, broccoli, etc...around for her to eat when she is hungry outside of meal times.
Would leaving the empty dishes sitting there serve as a reminder? I only offer this since you say she never asks for seconds. Maybe seeing the empty plate in front of her reminds she she just ate. If you left it there longer, that could delay her foraging.
We do try to eat together when possible, but she sometimes sleeps during the day, and we have different schedules of our own, so it doesn't work all the time. Regarding thirst - she tends to drink water too often, sometimes it's every 5 minutes that she would go and fill in her cup. She then forgets and goes again. We do give her little snacks between meals. 

Yes, she complains a lot about being bored and having nothing to do, but then she doesn't want to do anything we offer (and trust me, we've tried pretty much everything you could imagine), but that's a different problem.
Even though she sleeps a lot lately, we still manage to feed her more or less at the same time every day. Unfortunately, we can't really just leave veggies or similar snacks around for her because she can't chew. Taking her to the doctor is problematic but looks like there is no other choice. Thanks.
That's a great advice! She sometimes washes her dishes after herself and leaves them on the counter rather than putting them away, and there were a couple of times when we were able to use this as a gentle reminder to her. I think this might work at least a little.
Ok. From your original post and the one reply to made to someone else, it did not seem like meal time was consistent. 

It could be as simple as something being wrong with the hunger off/on switch. Or something affecting metabolism. But no way to know that without some tests.
What about a big white board with the meal times written down that you can point to when she is acting like she hasn’t eaten?
Like:
BREAKFAST- 8 AM
LUNCH- 12 PM
DINNER- 5 PM
SNACK- 7 PM

You can put a check mark next to them as the day goes along and it might help to have the next meal time there to allay her fears.
That is a very good idea in general. We have something similar in her room for a morning routine steps, such as "wash face", "brush hair", "get dressed", etc., including signs saying "I live here" :D Unfortunately, it doesn't really work, because she ignores it most of the time and we still have to tell her to do those things every day. She also doesn't keep track of time anyway, so even if she reads that lunch is at 12, she has no idea what time it is now, whether 12 already passed or not, even though she has a watch - she can't even tell night from day anymore.
