I'm 31 and dementia runs in my family unfortunately. Ive looked into this topic via internet research and found a healthy diet and exercise on a daily basis couldn't hurt. Keeping the mind sharp by always trying to learn new challenging things. Maintaining stress levels and taking care of your mental health. Remain socially active. Having your hearing and eyesight checked cause I've read hearing loss can aid in cognitive decline. These are some things I've found that might lessen the chances of getting dementia. I'm really hoping that in the future more can be done about this terrible disease. I would like to say keep a journal through the years and notice any change in your handwriting. The reason I say this is because my LO use to have nice handwriting and as he declined so did his writing. Idk if that will help its a suggestion.
Exercise. Avoid sugar. Don't drink in excess. Avoid hearing loss, or if you have hearing loss, get hearing aids. Stay connected with people and have a support system and friendships. Learn new skills and activities throughout your life.
My mom did all this including eating organic, daily exercise, and not drinking or smoking. Despite this her Alzheimer’s symptoms began at 60. She is 74 today and in memory care but still recognizes me.

I would never discourage anyone from becoming healthier, but so much in life boils down to genetics and luck.

Don’t wait for tomorrow to live life to its fullest.
Not a doctor, nothing scientific here. But, it runs in my family and there appears (to me anyway) to be a correlation between how much you "flex" your brain and the severity and speed of the decline.  Read, do puzzles, learn new things, get a couple of hobbies, etc. STAY CURIOUS and expose yourself to the unfamiliar as often as possible. The two relatives who mostly watched tv, with very little reading and no activities that weren't people-driven (e.g., socializing, coffee meetups, etc.), seemed to suffer the worst. The three who were avid readers and a bit more adventurous in their every day lives (travel (even if it was just stuff in the state), outings to experience museums, lectures, etc.) seemed to fair better. YMMV.
all the healthy stuff... limit sugar intake and exercise to keep inflammation down, learn new things and keep active- learning languages and being around little kids for some portion of your week seem to be really good for these.  And I just saw a study on how getting adequate good sleep lets your brain flush away the excess of proteins that would otherwise get tangled in there to kick off dementia.
Fish n veggies
"What's good for the heart is good for the head" works as a general rule. Certainly would apply to risk of vascular dementia.

But there's so many different dementias, with different underlying causes that are not understood yet that it seems pretty much just luck who gets or avoids it.

Alcohol plays a bigger part in dementia than most people realise, and lots of research these days implicates pollution/air quality as a major cause.
Dementia has a lower probability of being hereditary than ppl think. I think there are markers that can be looked at in genetic studies but I think it's only for a few types.

But all the responses are correct- exercise, diet, social, stimulation. 

I try to reject all pharmaceuticals that I can also (it's just an non proven observation I had w my mom, she is on SO many pills from diabetes to blood pressure to mental health). Her new neurologist said that immediately and they are working to streamline.
Any promising medications on the horizon?
With the exception of early on-set Alzheimer's disease, Alzheimer's is not genetic. And even that only accounts for 3-5% of cases. Those posting about lifestyle modifications have got it right! Eat antioxidant rich foods (think bright coloured fruits and veggies), stay active, challenge your brain (try something new and interesting!) stay social (even if it's online forums for those shy/introverted types) it's about connection and conversation. Get your routine check-ups to monitor blood pressure, cholesterol, blood sugar etc (which if not in healthy ranging can put you at risk for vascular dementia). And try not to worry...do something to decompress and relieve your anxiety.
Didn't read the other comments but someone with expertise in the field suggested a connection with gum pockets (oral and specifically gum health) and dementia on a previous post. So oral health care?
In addition to what others haver suggested, there’s some evidence in support of intermittent fasting and (separately) the supplementation of ketone bodies to ones diet to limit the rate of decline, but so far there is only support for this in individuals with mild cognitive impairment (like the precursor to dementia) and in dementia. 
I.e. no evidence for delaying the onset of dementia. 

And I deliberately write ‚delaying the onset‘ because, as several people have pointed out, we are held to account by many things which we have no control over such as genetics and stressful life events that hasten the onset of this awful disease
Absolutely.  Step 1, by a zillion miles, is regularly exercising your mind and body.  Walk, run, ride a bike, read a book, cook from new recipes, crossword puzzles, sudoku...  literally anything that stimulates your mind and body.  Then get your nutrition right.  Particularly in the case of EOAD, there's some strong connections between it and heart disease and poor dental health.  My Mom was just dx with EOAD in 2019 (she has both heart disease and lifelong poor dental health), and her dad had it too.  The thought of it striking me or one of my brothers haunts me daily.  Like, every time my mind doesn't fire on all cylinders I think about it -- and I'm only 37.  

Know this though, if it's going to happen, there is nothing available to stop it.  These things, and some medications, can slow down its progression, but Alzheimers and dementia is a steam train heading downhill -- there's nothing you can do to stop it.
Exercise and mental games! Anything that encourages memory recall or critical thinking will help keep those connections strong.
My Mom has alcohol-related dementia and she seems pretty normal unless you drill down on what she is saying and you realise it is nonsense. She will tell you what you want to hear. Gaslighting. The best thing we ever did was have her cognitive skills tested by a doctor, so the doctor took away her drivers license, so no more trips to the liquor store, then we put her in assisted living, which she agreed to, and the daily care and company has helped her memory from getting worse. If you feel like your memory is going, find a happy assisted living place with memory care. Then you can transition to memory care when you need to. The company of residents and nurses will keep your mind active and stave off dementia.
I think genetics have a major influence.  We can mitigate but the odds have to be in favour of genetics ? My mum or gran never drank, smoked , stressed and my granny although particularly intelligent ended up speaking to a potted plant in her dotage. My mum is going same way at similar age. Her family are all suffers.  I'm mid 40s and drink, stress, have poor diet and expect I'll be diagnosed with dementia and alzheimers. I've my missus warned I don't want to be a burden and the kids are told not to ever worry about me and to live their lives.
Genetic testing may be available to you at some time in the future, and more is being learned about the markers for different types of dementia all the time. Keep tabs on the research and an eye out for studies that relate to staving off dementia.

I would be cautious about general searches on the topic via typical search engines. Their algorithms are designed to sell dubious products.
Do not take Benadryl unless absolutely necessary. Look up anticholinergics and minimize the amount you take. Many sleep medications, first generation antidepressants, etc are on the list.
Eat healthy, exercise and don't drink.
Not specifically related to Alzheimer’s, but… If you have or think you have had a neuro event of any type (TIA, mini-stroke, flashes in your vision, weird stuff like that) go see a doctor about it.  My mom had a series of ‘spells’ that she refused treatment for because she didn’t want to be a bother.  The result is a five-year decline into vascular dementia.  Prolly could have been completed avoided had she gotten treatment, according to her neurologist
Genetics has an impact mostly in only rare dementia disease.  
The is a correlation between dementia and depression. Researches found that "people who became depressed late in life had a 70% increased risk of dementia, and those who'd been depressed since middle age were at 80% greater risk".
The best advice I ever heard - if it is good for your heart it is good for your brain. Diet, exercise, control stress. Also recommended is to start keeping an organized calendar, with notes, that support your daily routines.
Also, brush your teeth, floss and maintain oral hygiene. Some studies have shown that even small amounts of gum disease cause inflammation that contributes to cognitive decline.
I came here to say ALL OF THESE THINGS! Only thing to add is don’t smoke, limit alcohol, and eating a Mediterranean-esque diet. There is a specific diet called the MIND diet which has been found to have great brain benefits
As a generally anti-social introvert with a weak social network, this one worries me a little..
what is the association between hearing loss and dementia?
Yep, same.  They were going to the hippie grocery way before it was trendy, walking daily, tennis & swimming, no drinking or smoking.  Only bad thing in their life was stress/personal loss and to some extent that's out of one's control.
True, these are all things that reduce your chances of having dementia, but it doesn't guarantee it. There's still a large genetic component we don't understand. Still, I'll take reduced chances.

It's like wearing a seatbelt doesn't guarantee you'll survive a head-on collision, but it improves your chances.
[deleted]
Also not a doctor, but dementia runs in both sides of my family. The folks who take care of themselves (exercise, heathy weight, no smoking, alcohol in moderation, active social life) tend to live a lot longer generally, suffer less from dementia, and those who do are diagnosed much later in life (think late 70s/80s, rather than late 50s/60s). It’s a pretty stark contrast.
The Alzheimer's Association reported that the hereditary genes that cause familial Alzheimer's are rare. "These genes are estimated to account for 1% or less of Alzheimer's cases."
There’s always volunteering! Animal shelters, libraries, parks, there are all sorts of places where anti-social introverts can gather, work together & shine.

Also meetups has a lot of group activities. Community college classes can be cool, too.
There's a strong association between hearing loss and dementia, and they suspect it's due to the person retreating from social interactions  as well as the brain having to work harder to process the sounds that it can still hear. So if someone has hearing loss, it's important for them to get hearing aids.  


[https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/health/wellness-and-prevention/the-hidden-risks-of-hearing-loss](https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/health/wellness-and-prevention/the-hidden-risks-of-hearing-loss)
My Mom was also very emotionally healthy, with lots of loving friends, and she kept very busy.

When she ate meat it was always lean chicken or the occasional meat loaf.

She was always a very light sleeper, to the point she had to sleep in separate rooms away from my father's snoring. It has made me wonder whether her brain's lymphatic system was malfunctioning during sleep.

Neither of her two younger brothers have any dementia symptoms yet, although one of her brothers (72) now says his short term memory is slipping. But this is a guy who took drugs and drank for decades and lives off Costco hot dogs. But he also surfs every day.

Vascular dementia runs on my father's side and he's slipping fast but he's also 80, and it started probably three or four years ago.
True. That's why I mentioned genetic testing rather than referring back to Alzheimer's. I should have been more clear since OP's question was specific to Alzheimer's.

One of the reasons I watch the journals is my own family history. From my paternal great grandmother to my grandfather to my own father, all had dementia that impacted their last years. We're a long-lived bunch, so their lives ended at 94, 86, and 89, respectively.
very interesting thank you!
