2 things:

1. Lewy body dementia can cause hallucinations.

2. Please make sure there isn't a gas leak! Carbon monoxide poisoning can also cause people to see things (including ghosts!). Fascinating read or listen that has always stuck with me: https://www.npr.org/transcripts/533791342#:~:text=So%20carbon%20monoxide%20poisoning%20is,an%20unexplained%20feeling%20of%20dread.
I'm not sure if anything specific in your post is a SURE sign of dementia on its own, but the whole of it does seem to be indicative of dementia.

That's the funny thing about this disease. Any ONE thing could be explained away; and so often it is. But it's the big picture that is sometimes missed. That is what more professionals should see.

ETA: It wasn't that long ago my step-father was still agreeing with evaluating professionals (doctors, etc) and using the phrase "possible dementia." Yet here we are with my mother on her deathbed. Maybe she is just "possibly dying."

I wish there was not so much of a stigma with all kinds of mental health and people could feel free to seek help prior to this becoming a terminal disease.
The susceptibility to scams is very common among older people generally, but it is a textbook symptom for dementia. You should become an authorized user for his online banking so you can log in and check for strange transactions. 

In 2016 my grandmother seemed basically fine until she was hospitalized and in PT rehab for a month due to shingles (she had refused the shingrix vaccine to save a few bucks). So we checked her mail and slowly discovered that she was wrapped up in a scam and had lost some $20,000. And we managed to stop the bleeding. 

He should get his vision checked possibly by an ophthalmologist. He may see floaters or an aura which triggers the ghost hallucination if his brain is already vulnerable. 

I hope you do start talking to your dad more often. Socializing, activities, and discussion of complex, interesting, nuanced topics is important for staving this off as long as possible.
I am very familiar with the PCH scam. My mom almost lost $8500. I spoke to the scammer because he called her house on Thanksgiving day and we all happened to be there
You may consider getting Informed Delivery for his mailing addresses and online banking, and have it sent to an email account which your sister and you both have access to. Really you should maintain an email address (don't just use your person one) for all his medical portals and paperwork regardless and have it forward to your email.
TLDR: Macular degeneration can also cause hallucinations.

My grandmother once confided in me that she saw a cat sitting next to my chair. She knew it wasn't real, but wasn't frightened by it as it looked just like a cat she had when she was a girl.  I called my Dad about it.  He just laughed and said that the ophthalmologist had warned him about that.  When part of the vision field is disrupted (as with Mac D), the brain will often substitute an image from memory.   It's common enough to have a name: [Charles Bonnet Syndrome](https://www.macularsociety.org/macular-disease/macular-conditions/charles-bonnet-syndrome/)
My grandmother saw her dead children as teenagers hanging around her house- they all were stillborn or died as babies. She also saw fairies and some military guy would show up randomly and hang around. After a very long, drawn out process of denial by my mom and uncles, swearing it was a gas leak, her meds, etc. she was diagnosed with dementia but no real name put to it. 

Kind of a side story that was funny about this whole time period... Her tv had been hit by lightning and she'd had it repaired. While she was having the ghost hallucinations she mentioned her tv was randomly coming on but there was no sound and it wouldn't respond to the remote, after a while it'd shut off. It sounded like another one of her stories. Fast forward, after she was gone, I got married and inherited the tv. One morning I was getting up and as I walked through the living room, the tv came on, no sound, wouldn't respond to the remote. Kinda freaked me out a bit. I sent an apology Grandma's way for thinking that was part of her dementia.

Mom saw people trying to break into things on her property. She "saw"the neighbor shooting her cats in the yard... Cats that were in the house with her at the time. Usually if these kinds of things were going on it was a combo of dementia and a UTI. We grew to appreciate the hallucinations as a way to let us know she needed to be tested.
Hi there! 👋🙂 I've been a caregiver for 3 years now. I'm not that experienced but I do take care of a patient that has hallucinated a cat (audio and visual) and she always claims to see a woman. Ghost? Maybe. Hallucinating? Possibly. We may never know.
My grandmother sees people all the time and she has been diagnosed with LBD. She doesn’t say the word ghosts, but she is constantly seeing people that aren’t there. She also was falling for scams over the phone, before we disconnected her line (she lives with my parents). I always attributed that to the overwhelming number of scam calls everyone gets these days and the fact that she isn’t savvy to things like that, but looking back - I’m sure her LBD played a role in her falling for those scams. I couldn’t say for sure that your father has dementia, but I think there is enough reason for concern to get a doctor’s appointment on the books.
My dad has had vivid hallucinations and it was extremely difficult to separate them from reality at a distance, even when he's reading in a facility. We never knew "who" would answer the phone or what mood he would have. It was a wild rollercoaster.

They rebalanced his meds and reduced them to one major and a few minor recurring hallucinations. The major one is an imaginary good-for-nothing staff member who eats his food and keeps dad from getting packages. (Basically a freedom and happiness dream) A minor one is also partially true - A woman on his memory ward tends to wander from room-to-room looking at stuff, just curious. In his hallucinations, she's a thief who gets blamed for all the stuff he misplaced. To him both are very real.

It's terribly difficult being 1700 miles away with my own medical issues. With the careful care he's getting in the home, we and he knows he getting good care, but the separation hurts while we see him slowly fade into dementia hell.

The others have given excellent suggestions and I hope you get good and swift resolution soon!
Also, please please please check on his finances. I had a relative blow through $40k in a year writing checks to every solicitation that came in the mail (nonprofits sell mailing lists of donors to other nonprofits, so once she started with a few legit donations, a boatload of others rolled in... she spent hours a day mailing out checks. Small $10 or $20 checks but over a year they added up). 
If you're concerned your father is interacting with phone/mail/online solicitations I'd just really advise you look into the nature of the transactions and find out if he's being tricked into giving away money and/or personal information.
Since you don't live locally, I'd ask someone near him to do a welfare check. Council on Aging maybe if you don't want to get police involved, who can also do welfare checks.
Also one more thing, after spending the last 15 years around multiple family and friends with dementia. They can seem totally fine on the phone. You might get a completely different picture of how your father is doing in person. If you can make a trip, I would do it in order to get a good assessment of what's going on. I hope you get some answers.
Omg how frightening. I really hope he’ll take the possibility of a gas leak seriously because he really believes these ghosts are real and said he’d send me a video but hasn’t yet. Ugh this such crap situation worrying from another state. I’m going have my sister go by in the morning and hopefully see can see what’s going on.
Thank you for your reply. I’m sorry about your mother and what your going through as well. It’s so true dementia is one of those diagnoses that is definitely a puzzle and one piece on its own isn’t always enough I hear. I’m just curious if seeing ghosts is a common hallucination. I’m also wondering if cataracts may also be to blame for these sightings.
Thank you. He has a history of alcoholism in the past and its sort of derailed our relationship from being consistent. This is all great advice, I’ll look into how to go about the finances. I’m going try to keep in touch and possibly take a trip up there next month. Thanks again, I appreciate the advice 🙏🏼
Thanks I’m definitely going to look into becoming a authorized user. He is only 66 so I’m not sure how much i can be involved in his finances. I guess have to do some detective work and look into where his money is going without him shutting me out.
Right informed delivery…thats great idea. Appreciate the help thank you 🙂
I read about this syndrome! People see various hallucinations like one woman saw the Grand Canyon opening up in her house and another fellow saw cows his house. I know he has cataracts and may have more going on with his eyes. I think this definitely could be a part of the mystery thank you.
That’s true, at least the hallucinations tell me something is going on with him. It’s one way to look at it. Interesting how detailed these people were to your grandmother. My father said there must have been a concert venue where people died on his property because one guy is taking tickets and tearing them for people. And there other guys in his garage that were putting his tools in their backpack but he then he checks in the morning and the tools were all there.
Ok that’s good to know, thanks. I’m not sure how urgent this situation is, I do have a sister that near an hour away and I’m hoping she can check on him. Although I’m not sure how much one visit will tell us.
Good idea about welfare check. He said he doesn’t give “them” money but I don’t know if I believe him being that my sister saw him at Walmart a year ago buying a gift card to send out somewhere in order to “release his winnings / money” type of scam and she had to talk him out of it. But he says that  Publishers Clearing House is a legitimate sweepstakes and he’s waiting for them to release the money so that doesn’t sound right, but I’m not even sure this is really PCH because he mentioned they own his phone. Whatever that means. This such a mess.
I know my dad sent thousands off to Indian scammers. I've never had the strength to see how much he sent before we caught on.
Isn’t that the truth! Since Covid hit, I’ve been the only sibling with boots on the ground. My one bro (cross country & busy with new grandchildren) kept telling me, “She sounds fine on the phone.” My other bro (cross country & border) came to visit 2 months ago & was horrified to see his visit to play out exactly as I had related in our group conversations.
I'm so sorry you are worrying about him from far away. I'm in the same boat but thankfully also have siblings nearby. It's very hard to go thru this not really knowing the full situation. I hope you get answers soon!
Ask your sister to buy a carbon monoxide alarm. I’ve read before about hauntings being explained by carbon monoxide leaks.
My mom would tell us all the people she spoke to. The thing is, these people have been dead for years. I know that's not the same as seeing ghosts since she believed they were alive. I hear they begin to think photos are real, so maybe she was speaking to photos.

Of course, relatives would explain it away and not get it that she thought she was LITERALLY TALKING TO THEM, as opposed to, say my cousin's wife who lost her father saying she talks to her dad all the time. There is a difference in missing someone so fiercely and trying to keep their memory alive and with you. That is not what Mom was doing. She said they came to see her, etc.
I think my Mom has alchohalic dementia.
I am not sure why, but my mom had so many things in place which worked out great for her kids. She has had her bills on autopay for at least 20 year or so. Around age 70 (she is now 85) she added me to her bank account and had a medical and financial POA drawn up where I am primary POA, my brother is a secondary. Having this paperwork already secured made many things so much easier. That doesn’t mean there hasn’t been challenges along the way, especially with online accounts, passwords etc. but had she not had a POA in place getting her into assisted living would have been so much more difficult. 

The only road block has been access to her online Social Security account. She set that up with who knows what old email account - AOL? Hotmail? Local cable company email? And our local SS office has been closed during the pandemic and will only take appointments for the most dire of circumstances, of which my having access to her account is not considered dire. Which sucked in trying to do her taxes last year because she either never received or saved her Social Security tax form, so I just had to guess on that. If there’s a penalty there’s a penalty and will just have to pay it.
There were detailed stories for each thing. Whether that's how it played out in her hallucinations or she thought about it and made it make sense to tell me, I'll never know.  It's definitely a huge red flag that something's off.
I recommend the book THE 36 HOUR DAY By Nancy L. Mace.  It's a care book for families of people with Alzheimer Disease and other dementias.
If possible, whoever takes care of him, should keep a daily behavior log. If possible, see what things trigger his "hallucinations". Maybe a Neurologist can help.

I agree that one visit may not be enough. 

I say hallucinations with quotations, because I am very open minded and we never know if older people can be in touch with "the other side".

Sending lots of love to you and your family🥰
Oh yes, people call & send texts & emails to find old or gullible people & end up convincing them of something & then ripping them off !
My Mom gets calls from "PCH"  all time.  Amongst other scam calls.
In our situation I only found out because I was sorting through everything in order to file her tax return. You're probably better off not knowing and just moving forward. It's too painful to see how much scammers can prey on this vulnerable population.
I will thanks!
My mom also set up everything when she still had her marbles. Will, POA, advanced directives, added me and my sister to bank accounts, added us to the deed to the house, etc.

I think she did this because she saw what happened when parents passed away without having done this things, and the children could not easily/quickly deal with the parents' money, property, etc.

Regarding Social Security, maybe this could help:
https://blog.ssa.gov/my-social-security-101-when-you-need-additional-help-with-your-account/

Or this:
What if I need additional help?
We’re happy to help with any difficulties you’re having with your personal my Social Security account. For assistance, you may call us at 1-800-772-1213 (TTY 1-800-325-0778). Lines are open from Monday through Friday between the hours of 8 a.m. and 7 p.m. ET. Please say “Help Desk” at the voice prompt.

Since you can't go to a local SS office, they might ask you to mail them a copy of the POA or something.

Once her SS account is established, you can go online and download a copy of the tax form.
Ugh I’ve been trying to help my mom with accessing her social security account as well and no matter what I can’t get in even with the correct email .
Thank you I appreciate that 🤗
So true
💜
