[deleted]
First, examine the possibilities;

1.  Can you afford in-home caregivers and/or can your mom and aunts take turns caring for her?  

2.  Can she move in with your mom or aunts?  

3. What care facility in the area fits all of your needs the best. 

It's really easy to keep kicking the can down the road until a crisis makes a move necessary.  It's what most people do and then they have to figure out what to do when they pick their parent up from the ER and realize that they can't safely take them home.  People die soon after being put into homes often because the caregivers wait until the last possible moment; they may have died even sooner if left at home.  There's no way to say that moving their father into a home didn't actually *extend* his life.
Memory care will likely give her the opportunity to socialize with other people beyond the family, which is something she is missing at home.
We are in same boat with my dad.  He’s been ok living “alone” which is essentially a small back house behind my sister’s house (entire lot is 7500 sq ft so we are talking a matter of a few yards from her house to his).  About 6 months ago, we added cameras to living room, dining room, kitchen, office, front and back porches.  His decline, after quite a few years of stability, has been breathtaking these last couple of months.  We had hoped we would be able to keep him home for most, maybe all, of his life.  But, it is becoming pretty clear that he needs to be somewhere more structured.  He doesn’t have much money, maybe enough for 2-3 years but that might be all he has left anyway.  (If we knew how long he would live, it would be a rather simple math problem, but alas…..).  He also has an 80 lb golden retriever to which he is devoted and it would be unconscionable to separate them, so we would need a place that allows a large dog.  The dog is pretty old so that might not be an issue for a whole lot longer.
Sometimes you've got to place the blame on others, like saying the doctor needs her to stay in a facility for a few weeks to help her with whatever you come up with. Then "kick the can down the road" until she stops asking. It sounds a little bit cold but if she's resistant to the idea, it's not going to be easy no matter how you do it. If you go with something like this, be sure you tell the facility so no one counters it.
We had to use this with my mom and she bragged to a nurse who was just covering because someone called in sick and the woman was one of those "I don't lie, patients must be reoriented to my reality" types . When Mom told her she was just there until the doctor said she was walking well enough to go home, the nurse told her she was wrong, that she was in there forever until she died. Not fun to come in and find your mom in tears. Had a chat with the head nurse, the nurse was not allowed in their unit again.

Just offhand, have you had her checked for a UTI? That can change behavior and cause things to escalate.
Anger is a symptom of dementia. They are angry at their loss of memory.  They are angry about changes in their life. They are angry about moving someplace new.  We placed my elderly cousin, Betty, 89, in assisted living last summer. She lived with her best friend, who is also elderly, but of sound mind.  The roommate couldn't handle caregiving so the family found an assisted living building for Betty.  And boy was she mad!  She didn't want to move from her friend's home.  She didn't understand why none of us moved her in with us. She was furious that she couldn't be independent.  We took her with us to visit the apartment and she conceded that it was a nice place. Then, of course forgot all about it. But move her we did. And surprise, she actually loved it.  They had great food and activities. She made new friends.   On warm days, she and a friend would walk in the building's garden, then sit on the patio and chat. A couple of days after the move, she said she realized it was the right thing and thanked me for doing it. So you have to do what is right, but understand there could be some rough spots along the way.
Your perspective is great, thank you. I’ll be sharing it with my family
When we visited assisted living facilities recently, we learned that some of them will allow dogs.
We did think she had a uti but my aunts a nurse and checked her out. My aunt gave the all clear but she’s got an appointment set up this week just in case
