YES! My daughter wanted her grandfather, my dad, to spend thanksgiving with her in her new home. Back story, she was in some denial, my parents were her only grandparents, he paid for her wedding reception, gave her away and helped her financially they college and getting her masters. 

My sister bought him new everything, he had a brand new suit and my son n love drove 4 hours to pick the both of them up and 4 hours back, Wednesday. By Friday night they were back and he was quite disoriented didn’t know where he was and didn’t remember the trip. We had pictures of him very engaged with the great grands and shooting pool but he didn’t remember. His baseline dropped after that. 
With dementia it’s better to keep them in familiar surroundings. We took care of our dad in his home for 2 1/2 years til he died this past June. He could walk around in his house in the dark, but we couldn’t take him away for more than a trip to the gas station or car wash

It might not be a good experience to take him away and may do more harm
Agree with the other posters, your father is likely to feel even more confused & insecure in unfamiliar surroundings. He'll also have to presumably cope with airports, flying, and potentially a different culture & cuisine, and an unfamiliar language and currency. 

Additionally, if your father does stray from your family group and can't find his way back to your lodgings, you now have to deal with that country's procedures for finding missing people. 

To be blunt, a holiday should be carefree & enjoyable for all family members; I understand your mom wanting to keep things as normal as possible, but this sounds like a recipe for stress all round.
I was originally going to send my mom on a vacation back to her home country. After a heart to heart with her part-time caretaker, i elected to keep her home. If he easily gets disoriented best to skip the vacation or she should go on her own.
My grandma is older but we took her on her last long distance trip in the summer last year. Flying was difficult. We went to 2 different family homes and she really struggled to understand where she was. When we came home it took a few days for her to know it was her room and house and we were done traveling. It was super stressful for us (which we expected and were prepared for) and she was wiped out for days after. Maybe 2 weeks after the trip she was more on a regular schedule.

And this trip was only domestic flights and traveling with family she lives with and sees daily. 
I would be concerned for the kids too. If he has behavioral outburst due to his frustrations or fears, the kids may not understand what is happening depending on age. Which just raises all sorts of undue stress on everyone.

My father (who does not have dementia) has passed on many family vacations due to all sorts of reasons. It never negatively impacted our trips. I have also vacationed without my husband a lot due to his career fields. 

You may be able to find respite care that he could stay at while the family vacations. He may be able to go even sooner as a trial run to see how he reacts and if he enjoys it. Then she may be more receptive to him staying "home".
I took my mom on vacation for her 70th. I thought she could handle it. It ended up being a week of fear because she couldn’t remember anything. She was scared to even go on the balcony. It was horrible and absolutely the wrong decision
This might indeed be an awful experience for him but she really shouldn't have to sacrifice all fun experiences in her life.  Talk to her about ways she could have a fun vacation while safely leaving him at home.  If she's certain she can handle him in an unfamiliar environment suggest that the two of them go to a hotel near their own home for a weekend and see how he handles being in an unfamiliar environment.
Even a short trip an hour away would freak my mom out.  For example, one Thanksgiving early in her diagnosis, my brother drove her an hour to my house.  She was very anxious on the short road trip, had to stop and pee twice, and once she arrived at my house, she immediately wanted to go home.  She was very fidgety during the Thanksgiving meal and it was basically an eat and run visit. 

If you decide to take him, be prepared for mishaps, disruptions, anxiety, etc.  This could be a situation where you may need to explain to the flight attendants  that your dad has dementia (will he keep a mask on in the airport and during the flight?).  Worst case - he is disruptive on the plane and your trip is compromised. I just know how my mom was and I would not have taken her on even a domestic flight. 

You should discuss these scenarios with your mom.
My mother and brother took my dad to visit my other brother. I wouldn't have attempted it myself and would have advised against it, but I wasn't consulted. It went very poorly. My dad's traveling days are over. Staying overnight anywhere but in his AL apartment throws him completely off.
We took 3 fairly big trips after my father was diagnosed.  The first one, his 3 daughters (I’m eldest) took him to Italy for 2 weeks for his 80th birthday.  He was early-ish in his diagnosis (still living alone and still driving but increasingly forgetful and confused).  It was a wonderful trip and he basked in the attention and care.  About a year later, I took him to New Orleans for 4 days.  He had always wanted to go there so I figured it was then, or never.  He was still living alone but no longer driving.  About 9 months after that, we took a family cruise to Alaska (25 - all my dad’s kids, grands and great grands).  We knew that was likely his last real trip, and it was.  He did okay but someone was assigned to him at all times.  He enjoyed the trip a lot, even though he probably couldn’t recount anything that happened.  He knew that he was with people who loved him very much.  Shortly after this, he lost his ability to live independently.  At that point, travel would be too stressful for everyone.  Now he gets anxious if he is away from home for more than an hour or so.
I've worked with a lot of dementia patients, and it really depends on the type of dementia they have, combined with their personality. 

I have know of at least one advanced case where the patient is just happy to go along with everything, and relishes the holiday. She doesn't remember them, and it's not relaxing for the family, but they still consider it worth it. Most patients already get confused and disoriented in their own homes, and would not enjoy a vacation like that.
Terrible idea, unfortunately. If he's starting to struggle, then the second you take him out of his familiar environment and routine, it can easily tip him into a crisis. At the very least, your mom won't enjoy her vacation because your dad's increased confusion (and the necessity of dealing with it) will overshadow everything. At worst, it'll trigger full on outbursts, aggression, wandering, etc. I can't overstate how dramatically they can decompensate the instant their brains have to process new environments and routines, even if they're still generally calm at home.

I feel for her and for her desire to live her life as close to normally as she can. Dementia is awful not just for what it does to the sufferer, but what it does to everyone around them, too. But a better option, if possible, might be for her to find at-home care or to put him in respite care for a week or two, so she can get away and have some kind of vacation by herself.
If you or a few family members offered to stay with your dad so your mom could vacation with less worry, that might be a nice gift
My nephew is getting married this summer & there is no way my mom is equipped to deal with the trip.  Honestly she doesn’t even remember it’s happening so no loss for her.
Yeah, test run would definitely be for the best.
