Sadly, it will always end in death.  Dementia isn't just forgetting things or getting confused.  The person's brain is shutting down.  With my mother it seems that there is a decline and then a leveling off for a little while, and then another rapid decline.  The cycle then repeats.  This can last for years with some people.  

Who knows, maybe it will last long enough for medicine to find some answers.
The science isn't there yet. The only type of dementia that can be halted or even reversed is Normal Pressure Hydrocephaly. which usually gets misdiagnosed as an incurable dementia such as Alzheimer’s because that is more common and a more likely answer. 

you can try to avoid events that accelerate the dementia. start using hearing aids if there is hearing loss. keep good hygiene to avoid UTIs. Don’t take Benadryl. most importantly to stay socially engaged. They can have a normal-feeling daily routine, low-risk errands, and social life while living in a walkable neighborhood for a very long time, several years even, beyond the point when it is not safe to drive. 

Every hospitalization, especially if it results in a broken hip or leg, makes it worse in the long run.  if the house has stairs and is not safe, it is better to move them in early stage while they can still form new muscle memories and social attachments. If you move them in mid stage *after* some injury, they could lose their anchor and become unhinged, and rapidly decline.
There is a difference between SYMPTOMS of dementia and "dementia" as a diagnosis (which usually becomes more clarified with time to Alzheimers, Vascular dementia, Lewy Body, or Fronto-Temporal -- although there are close to 100 types of dementia).  

Symptoms of dementia can be caused from many different things. many times the dementia progress can be either reversed or arrested -- if they are caught and treated in a timely manner.

But dementia as a diagnosis is brain failure and will end in death.
That is exactly what happened with my mom.  But her final decline was so fast.
Good post. Saw an article a couple of weeks ago about cataract surgery reducing dementia risk, but of course there are also studies about the anesthesia they use accelerating dementia so.... also, hearing loss can indicate or foreshadow stroke risk. Incontinence can be from any variety of issues including UTI but can also signal the dementia is hitting deeper in the brain. I'm sorry, OP. 

I hope for advancements every day 😔 I know I'm not alone in that. Dementia and Alzheimers are just horrible
I think generally daily habits matter more than one-off surgeries. Never wearing your hearing aids. Daily benadryl to sleep. Incontinence/UTIs/lack of hygiene, those 3 really snowball each other. A bidet toilet does help actually.
I do too. Just raising points to consider. I've even bought people the Charles Duhigg book called Habits. Have you read it? Great info, for everyone really.
I’m curious why no Benadryl. Can you explain?
I haven’t read it
There's a lot of research you can read if you google "anticholinergic drugs and dementia".
https://www.health.harvard.edu/mind-and-mood/two-types-of-drugs-you-may-want-to-avoid-for-the-sake-of-your-brain
Thank you!
I had no idea about this—thank you. My mom takes both Paxil and Mitrazipine. I’m going to call her doctor tomorrow. Really appreciate it.
