I call their doctor's office and ask to speak to a nurse.  I could ask for the doctor but I'll probably get the nurse anyway.  Or I send a message through the electronic medical chart system.
Sorry to hear of your stressful situation. Congratulations on your baby!

You'll get through all this. Can I ask where you live? (state or province)
1. I would treat at home first because we don’t run to the doctor for every little thing ourselves, but if symptoms continue for an extended period of time  I would get her to the doctor, depending on the symptom. 

2. OTC meds: don’t be scared to ask the pharmacist for help! They have all the info and are a great resource, and always good to make sure there’s no drug interaction for any medicine she might currently be taking. Diarrhea is usually best to let it runs it’s course, but the elderly can get dehydrated really easy, so try some Pepto Bismol (includes dosage cup) if it hasn’t cleared up in 24-48 hours. And at least get a call in to the doctor if it last longer than four days. For constipation, push fiber and water first, stool softeners can help but watch out for stimulants that cause cramping and be painful. If allergies are ongoing, I would talk to her doctor to get her on a treatment plan, but if it’s random allergy reaction, a Benadryl tablet usually does the trick, but of course this will make her sleepy. Rashes, I got a guy who swears by Monistat cream, says it clears any rash up, but I have not had an opportunity to try this myself. 

3. I use WebMD for medical info. There’s less medical jargon and it tends to be easier for me to understand. The Mayo Clinic is also a good resource, but it seems more doctor oriented rather than patient or caregiver oriented. 

Good luck, and congratulations on your new baby!
(assuming US) If Grandma has a Medigap (Medicare supplement) plan, it may come with a 24/7 nurse hotline. The idea is that you have a person to call for these random minor-illness questions.

For dementia, avoid Benadryl!!! It makes dementia even worse. [(link: Harvard Health Publishing)](https://www.health.harvard.edu/blog/common-anticholinergic-drugs-like-benadryl-linked-increased-dementia-risk-201501287667)

For diarrhea/constipation, Metamucil is great to have on hand. It brings them back to equilibrium rather than risking a med that swings them too hard the other way.

I'm very fortunate to have an aunt who is a doctor, who was originally trained as a pharmacist pre-med. The next best thing is the Mayo Clinic symptom checker.
My mom’s doctor offers telehealth appointments and her doctor will call sometime within a four hour window, which works for me because I’m home with her anyway. 
I try to use the remedies that help me when I don’t feel well like movies and soup and this might work to help you to have time to sit with your new baby and her and watch a movie or show you like. 
My mom’s gastrointestinal doc recommended a half of Imodium when she has diarrhea because she has other GI issues; we both take a raw multi vitamin with probiotics to help keep everything normal (I have had luck with Metamucil like someone else mentioned). 
My mom likes ricola cough drops and they come in different flavors to keep her enjoying them when she has a cough/ head cold. 
Congratulations on the baby and you can do this!
I would avoid Benadryl for seniors and dementia patients. https://www.health.harvard.edu/blog/common-anticholinergic-drugs-like-benadryl-linked-increased-dementia-risk-201501287667
