It's ok to get rid of clothes that don't fit and are taking up space. She would do that herself if she was able. It might be better not to do it while she's watching, even if she can't communicate, she may think her stuff is being stolen, and feel distress.

You might also keep a few of the prettier, more colorful clothes, so that if she's looking where she's used to seeing her nice clothes, there will still be some to look at.
I’ve had to do this. You just do it. It’s no different than someone outgrowing clothes. 
Pro tips
1. Check pockets before you get rid of anything. You’ll be surprised what your parents hide in pockets or forget about from money, jewelry, photos, etc.  

2. If there’s a favorite sweater your mom loved or clothes family members fondly remember of them, keep it for now. You might want to do something with it later. I’ve seen families turn them into quilts for the significant other.
Sounds like a good choice. Don’t forget though, you may want a nice outfit for her if you are doing an open casket. Not saying she will pass soon, just thinking ahead. We lost our grandma recently and had to decide what we wanted her to wear.
One thing I hear about dementia repeatedly is while dementia patients forget a lot they remember how things and people make them feel.  If you know your Mom was particularly fond of certain items I would be inclined to keep those if you can, even if you know they will never be worn again.
Absoulutely you can unobtrusively remove most of her clothing that no longer fits and will never be worn again, but she might enjoy cloosing new practical items; for example ask her opinion about colors of tops and sweaters. There are so many non profits that seek gently used clothing for women entering white collar jobs and evening wear might be repurposed for weddings and other special occasions. Poshmark, Etsy and Ebay list clothing but if money is not of concern, seek out Salvation Army, Goodwill and local thrift stores. Mom's unused clothing will bring joy to the less fortunate. This might not apply in her situation but if Mom is living alone and has paid caregivers,remove jewelry and other valuables from the home.
I moved a friend to memory care last summer.  Had to do the clothes clean out, and it is hard, but also good to do.  For my friend, it was helpful to think about what she actually needs, x pair of pants, y short sleeve shirts, z sweatshirts….  She doesn’t miss the rest of her clothes, and often doesn’t even recognize the clothes we kept as belonging to her.

We kept pieces we knew she’d chosen to wear, that were in good repair, were easily laundered and flattering or fun.  Out went all the cashmere sweaters and professional work wear.  In was the sweatshirt she bought on that trip and her favorite sandals.  

My friend was not present while we went through her clothes.  I think that would be particularly hard.  The end result made life a little easier for everyone.
My Mom (with ALS) has shrunken incredibly. She has also always been a clothes horse, of sorts.  The only things she really wears these days are "sweatshirt dresses" and nightgowns, since she can't move.  Ive got to figure out what to do with her clothing - and there's SO much....  Luckily, I can fit into most of them, but our styles just don't match...  And it's all just horribly sad.
Not to be morbid, but you will eventually have to close down her home. If there is no use, no fond memories, no point at all to the clothing now or in any foreseeable future, it's better to do it now. Source: had to clear out my parents' home after both passed. I'm not sure which was more traumatic: sitting hospice, or clearing out the mountain of stuff—with their senior complex breathing down my neck to move faster, and no place accepting donations because Covid had just rolled in.
I don't think there's an ethical problem but would suggest that if there are a few pieces that might elicit a positive emotional response - something she used to wear all the time when she was younger, her "favorite" purse, your dad's favorite sweater (I'm assuming he's gone) - just keep them. It doesn't hurt anything. You can weed out 90% of it and get her more room.

To be bluntly honest, you're going to do it now or do it later after she either passes away or has to move. If it makes her life better to do it now, do it now. If it makes her life worse, do it later.
I did exactly that, and she fought me but we did it together. It took many attempts at suggesting we do it before she finally gave in. 

I had her sit on the bed and try on clothes that I thought were too big, asked about things that seemed way out of style or not her style, asked about clothes that I knew she liked but were stained or torn. I made a pile to keep, a pile to donate, and a pile to throw away. We did clothes, shoes, handbags, underwear, all of it. 

Many of her shoes and coats were mildewed. Most of these I threw away, not worth trying to clean. We also got rid of all of her heels or any clothing that she can’t function in anymore. 

I will admit that some things “accidentally” made into the “wrong” pile. I will also admit that the donation pile is still sitting in my office, nine months later (*yeesh*) for me to go through. Some of them I think might pull in some decent money from a consignment shop, but I need to launder them and really look at them in good light. 

There were a few items she wanted to keep “just in case”, for sentimental reasons really, and I let her keep those, of course.
It’s not an ethics question, it’s a relationship question. If you can get her on board, then do it. If she’s going to hate you for it, don’t do it unless you absolutely have to. If it’s going to be a battle, pick your battles.
I'm probably repeating a lot of what's been said already, but if she's truly not up for helping with decision making, quietly go about it with her best interests in mind. What would she wish to keep, what would still fit her, etc. and then donate the rest to a cause she would have loved.
Since you mentioned the ethics of it, your mention that the clothes are taking up a majority of her bedroom space, that’s your justification right there. 

Ultimately, having all that stuff is potentially going to be overwhelming for her sooner or later. And if it isn’t overwhelming for her, it surely will be for you when the time comes to clear it all out.
My dad is early stages dementia - we had a similar situation with disposing of his huge book collection (especially after a stack of art books toppled on him and trapped him).

We are a very ethics-conscious family, so this experience did test all of us. Ultimately, he wasn't dead yet, they are his belongings, we aren't entitled to it. But he and my brother came to an arrangement where my brother would help him reduce his book collection and ensure the valuable and sentimental ones stayed. The unethical bit was that dad didn't realize that he had thousandsssss of cheap books that could be donated. Basically we weighed his safety against his judgement, and safety won. I still feel icky about it, but the reality is is that dad will eventually go into assisted living, and his kids will be the one paying for storage.

My brother would sprinkle books to dad and ask him to pick and choose, small bits at a time. We catalogued each book and ensured that if something was misdonated, we knew which ones could easily be re-ordered. We hired some dude from India to create a python script that somehow tagged all the valuable ones, which were kept. No books are being sold as of yet. If dad ever comes on board with that idea, the money would be cycled back to his care.

Be careful about what you're donating though. My brother accidentally donated a 10,000 DOLLAR book to Goodwill. $10,000. Yes, you heard right. Never found it. Gowns, silks, those might be quite valuable.
Unless she's a hoarder, she may respond positively to a downsizing: "sure mum, you need some clothes, but do you really need 20+ light jackets with buttons you can't close? Why not keep the nicest 5?" (mine does, with some persuasion).
She's a dependent. If you have a child, it's perfectly fine to get rid of clothes no longer being worn. It's no different for a dependent parent.
I think it’s ethical. In fact, I would characterize it as a duty. And if you have any sentimental feeling toward any of i,t just take photos of anything like that before you give it away.
Senior centers here have used clothes stores to raise money  I would not throw her clothes away specifically. They  don’t make things the way they used to and so donation , while a pain in the-  seems better for clothes up to the 90’ish
I would suggest getting rid of things *but* make it look like you only straightened it up a little. If there's a favorite sweater that she can't use, make sure it's still on the hangar and she can see it. 

This kind of thing worked for me pretty well, as I realized my mother was using only 3 rooms of the house so I could clear out the other 4. But there was that one room that I just couldn't ... full of my father's treasures ... microscope from the 1930s, treasures from the Depression Era ... I know how it feels!
Number 1 is solidly accurate. We found expensive jewelry in pockets. And people totally hide things in the most random places. I’ve known of old people to even hide over 20k in cash in their clothes dryer. Just don’t quickly brush over stuff and not check.
Yes she is at the point where she doesnt recognize them as her belongings
It has been very sad. She was also a very made up fancy lady, but now also lives in mostly dresses, nightgowns and sweatshirt dresses due to us needing to assist with changing her multiple times a day
I dread having to do this..
Lol at this point im not sure she even recognizes them as her belongings
She kinda was a hoarder lol she's lost reasoning unfortunately so its hard to have those types of convos
Everytime I think about this, looming in my future, I consider how vikings had pyre funerals: just load everything onto a ship, set it on fire and let it sink into the lake/fjord.
Oh well in that case do what works best for all of you
