[deleted]
Listen, smile, let them be themselves in the moment. Talk to them about the moment...my Dad would talk about fishing with his grandfather, so I could say tell me about the boat, where did you go, what did you catch. Then maybe be prepared to have this conversation right over again. Naturally that's weird because that's not what we are used to...think of it as being an actor and now you are doing a scene over. Don't take things personal if they are in a bad mood because it's not you (unless you are not being nice).
I don't yet know how this will feel, but my mom has been declining for about a year now. 

She's still mostly pretty good but I've started to see some huge memory gaps. It's been awful and very sad to see this unfold, but I suppose there is the benefit of it preparing me for the next phase: one of these days she will not know who I am. It will be awful and painful, but what I've come to understand through all this and underneath that terrible disease, my mom is still in there.

One of the ways I know this, is that even when she's had a particularly bad day where she is very mixed up, agitated and doesn't know where she is, I can give her a hug and it's the very same, tight, loving hug that she's always given. 

We were told early on in the diagnosis that "the love remains" even in cognitive decline. And I've heard more than a few stories to suggest this is true. 

Good luck to you and your Nanna. I hope you have a really wonderful visit with her. Love is strong. ❤️
Have no expectations, go with the flow no matter where it goes.  Smile, be kind, hold her hand if she allows, don't correct her if she calls you by the wrong name.  Accept her for who she is at the present time. Just be gentle with her and be gentle with yourself.
There is really nothing to be worried about. If she doesn't know who you are that's ok. My FIL is 3 years into his dementia and sometimes he knows who I am and other times he doesn't. He has good days and not so good days.

This is my first time dealing with this disease and in all honesty it sucks. There is very little you or I can do, its out of our hands. Watching someone waste away slowly is devastating to everyone involved.

Don't expect a lot and you won't be disappointed. If she remembers you that's great. If not you need to be prepared. This disease is merciless but you need to remember if things go not so well, that it's the disease controlling your loved one. She is not the same person that you ounce knew.

I wish you luck and hope things go well for you.
Since you're going with your dad I don't know if he sees her regularly or not but if it's the first time for both of you it might be quite shocking to him as well. What I found is with my own loved one with dementia is that if I just express my love and happy to see him he will feel that. When I have gone to visit my dad with other relatives including my brother their reactions sometimes bother me more than my dad's reactions if that makes sense. No matter what try not to argue with your dad if emotions are strong for either one of you. It won't help your nana and it may harm your relationship with your own father.
Don't quiz her. Instead of saying "Do you know who I am?" say, "Hi, Nana, it's me, your grandchild OP." Instead of "Do you remember..." say "I remember when we..." 

Try to keep your voice and facial expressions pleasant. She's likely to reflect back the emotions she perceives in you. 

Relax and enjoy your visit. It's a gift, not a test.
Treat every conversation normal. I found I probably will repeat every sentence 5 or 6 times because she starts to understand what I say, it's better to let them guide the conversation. Being happy, smiling and really just the regular treatment is the best way to go. Also talk a little slower I find they can follow a conversation a bit better.
She may not recognize you as her grandson, but very possibly remembers that her grandson exists, and imagines him to be younger than you. Ask her to tell you about him. Ask her if she wants help writing a letter to him by dictation. You can write and mail letters back to her, as the grandson.
thank you, i hadn’t thought of it that way. this was very helpful
thank you, this was oddly comforting
unfortunately neither of us have seen her for quite a while given our distance and the pandemic (my family all works in care some way shape or form so we have all had to stick to lock down rules strictly) so i think it’s going to be a big shock for both of us. either way, whether she remembers us or not, i’m well aware that i’m going to need to stay strong for my dad as it’s going to be a lot harder on him than it is on me. thank you very much for your advice, i really appreciate it
thank you, i’ll do my very best! i really appreciate it
