In my experience, dementia often turns you into somewhat of an asshole (or makes underlying assholery even worse) some years before they start showing medical symptoms. Which sucks because otherwise nice patients will have trashed all their relationships and burned all their bridges by the time they need help.

If it is dementia, the behavior will only get WORSE, not better. Dementia-meanness is already hard when it's been a close parent-child relationship. Even lots of healthy elderly people can have their brains shrink, especially the part of the brain that exercises empathy. It becomes increasingly hard to actually imagine themselves in another's shoes for a moment and or at least bite their tongue and act appropriately because they value the relationship.  If you're not particularly attached to them, get out now. Organize their finances to qualify for aid (draw up a Personal Care contract to spend down their assets while paying you for your time and labor), get them moved into a nursing home, Make an exit ramp for yourself NOW.
I think it depends on the person, and I think you might already have the answer for yourself!

If you stay, are you able to get some counseling each week to help you cope with an ass? Most likely they are not going to change, the only thing you have control over is your response in which case a counselor may be a goldmine of strategies. Also, even if it isn't dementia, checking out a Teepa Snow video on difficult dementia behaviors may be a free way for you to tuck some new tools into your tool box and continue on. 

Good luck!
Leave for a week.  Turn off your phone or block all incoming messages from them.  It will give you a needed break and let you experience what life without them is like.

Then go back.  Hopefully they have learned their lesson.  If they haven't, or if they start to backslide into bad behavior, tell them that the last time you left it was for a week, the next time you leave you won't be coming back.

It will never be you're fault if you leave and they end up hurting themselves.  You weren't put on this earth to be their whipping post.  You are a person and have your own life to live, and deserve to be treated with respect.

Don't let them abuse you into giving up your self respect out of guilt.
“If you continue to scream at me, I will leave”
Hi, there. New member here. F/29 and full time caretaker of my dad who is 70, bedridden with a myriad of health issues. Yes, I can relate to this. He has no mental illness history or dementia but in the last year, his mood swings are completely off the charts and I am positive he is undiagnosed bipolar.  Everything has to be done when he says so and he is manipulative and twists the truth to his gain. He repeats things nearly verbatim daily and if you mention that he already said something, he gets extremely pissy.  He says that he "isn't in a hurry" and will tell you "to take your time" but then will ask for five things back to back and expect them to be done.  If you answer his questions with a little stress in his voice, he retorts that \*\*you\*\* need to be more patient.  He will purposely move slower completing simple tasks to test your patience and if you fall for that trap, then he yells at you.   His mouth never stops moving - constantly asking questions and complaining.  He is incredibly sarcastic and passive aggressive and belittles. He doesn't communicate well and if you say something opposite of him then he thinks you're trying to control him. 

Ah, yea. Such a joyful person to be around. :(
Yeah. Hard to swallow, but I think you’re right.

They’re much better with outside caregivers, but it’s a lot easier to be nice to a stranger for half an hour a couple times a week than it is to be a genuinely nice person 😂 

Family caregiving sucks!
Counseling isn’t an option right now 😬 I’ll check out Teepa Snow. Thanks for the suggestions.
This might work on an average adult.

I’m pretty sure they will just say “okay bye” and not realize or care about the consequences.

It’s a matter of time before they injure themselves and end up in the hospital, and then it’s going to be my fault for leaving and letting them hurt themselves.

Or so it seems.
Came online after flipping a shit on my mom after this exact scenario. I’m home taking care of her, working remote, trying to keep the house from falling apart while it degrades from neglect. And she just won’t. Stop. “Oh and I forgot to ask you to do this” And when I start chipping away at the endless to-do lists she hovers and criticizes and tells me I’m not doing it right. It’s driving me insane. I don’t think I can stay here it’s too toxic. But there’s no one else to take care of her, she refuses to sell her house full of crap, and she has no friends.
My grandmother is WAY nicer to outside strangers as well. She even had one aide, her absolute favorite, who she never EVER got mad at. Heck, she's nicer to her sons and grandsons than the daughters. She just respects them more.

You can continue to advocate for your family member's behalf, check in on them in the nursing home, arrange in-home aides... without putting in the actual face time every single day.
Wish 'ya the best path forward.
Responding to this comment specifically because this is our situation. My parent is like yours. They keep telling me that all i want is to throw them in a facility to rot.

How much abuse can you take? I don't know. But i know that the worse it gets, the more broken and worn down you feel.

You're not alone. I hate that neither of us is alone in this.
Grin and bear it. Try to focus on the person she used to be and the good times. Try not to say or do anything you will regret. 
My dad passed in March. You will end up missing her. 💙
It’s difficult when someone is perpetually negative and enjoys seeing others in pain. I have nearly no memories of her being happy, and I’m 33. She’s been sick since I was 5 years old - my entire life. I know you’re trying to push me to be the better person here, but it comes off as very self righteous and projecting your regret onto someone who you don’t even know.
I'm sorry you took it that way. That was not my intention. Kind regards and I hope the best for you and the situation you are in.
