My dad constantly sniffs and blows his noise. He goes through a box of tissue a week. I wear noise canceling earphones. He doesn’t know he’s doing it so we just go with the flow. Dementia is a terrible condition.
With my mom it's humming, saying mmmhmm or ok all the time. She had been rubbing her head a lot. So much that she lost a huge patch of hair. It's finally growing back but now she's moved on to the constant humming lol.
My mom started breathing through her teeth about two years after her diagnosis- vascular dementia. Was unnerving at first- especially when driving- I thought she was bracing for something I wasn’t seeing. I’ve brought it up to her doctors - neuro/primary/pt and none have said a word, literally no comment. I just assume it’s another coping/self-soothing mechanism. I’ll remind her once in a while to relax her jaw and take a belly breath.  She’s also started talking to herself the same way she talks to her cat, it’s like she’s keeping herself company?
I’m laughing because my mother grinds her teeth, it is the most annoying sound ever, I give her chewing gum now for some peace and quiet.
My mother has a different annoyance that gets on our nerves. In the morning is easy to copy and laugh along to, but at night after dealing with it all day it's hard to tolerate. Nothing we have tried has been successful in breaking the habit.
Ours is wheezing. She does not seem to know how to take deep breaths anymore. She has vascular dementia. We actually took her to urgent care because previously she had tested positive for C19 and it seemed to get worse after that. Then she aspirated food one night at dinner (breathing/swallowing seems to be getting harder). The chest x-ray was clear but they said to try to do breathing exercises with her. I just try to block it out when she does it. 

She also makes constant Sssss sounds and a few other letters. Easier to drown out while driving by turning the music up.
When my mom lies down to watch tv which is most of her waking hours her rales is pretty much constant. Rales, from COPD is that sound when your lungs is full of mucus  while exhaling and all she has to do is cough, get up and spit it out. But doesn't, or has to be told to and sometimes she wont. 

Sort of gotten use to it, other times it drives me crazy and have to leave or wear noise cancelling headphones. 

Best of luck.
My dad is very loud. He clears his throat and blows out of his nostrils literally twice per minute (I’ve watched the clock). I’ve tried earplugs, white noise, headphones but nothing works. I don’t know what else to do.
Yes! I call the noise my mum makes 'day snores' as it sounds like snoring when breathing. It drives me nuts and have Googled it many times to see if anyone else had the issue with no luck.

I sympathise completely, but am kind of relieved she isn't the only one and I'm not missing another issue that's going on.
Thank you for the reply, and yes, noise-canceling earphones are the only way I can get any work done. Dementia is indeed terrible.
This sounds very similar my mother, though instead of breathing through her teeth it's through pursed lips, like blowing up an invisible balloon all day. Same diagnosis: vascular dementia. She stops for a few seconds if I ask (in a concerned and sympathetic voice), "Are you OK? You sound like you're having trouble breathing." But she just brushes it off saying she's fine, and then resumes the balloon-blowing as soon as I turn my head.
I've also been on many fruitless Google hunts for ways to deal with this. It has gotten worse the past month or so as well--more uneven and erratic where it used to be regular and rhythmic.
