I think it’s great that she is willing to follow up on it. I wouldn’t necessarily jump to assuming it is dementia, but it is a possibility. It could be all sorts of things, some easily checked with bloodwork or urinalysis. Follow through with the process. She may get a diagnosis of depression or stress. These are also possible. Most importantly, keep an eye out for worsening or continued instances. My husband was first diagnosed with depression, which honestly made some sense. However, over the next two years, I saw worsening. He was 49 or 50 when I first started noticing minor changes, 51 when he was told it was depression, and 53 when he was told it was mild cognitive impairment of the frontotemporal lobes. He is now 55.


Also, this is a great time to get your financial health in order just in case your wife has difficulties working. Pay off any debt ASAP, get that house paid for and  focus more on retirement savings. If you find out it is something debilitating, see a lawyer who specializes in elder law to make sure you are covering all your legal bases and also protecting your assets to ensure you can get the care she will need and still have funds left to cover the care you will need someday.
Thanks so much to everyone so far for their insights. It’s really useful to keep us from catastrophizing. She is an exhausted mom of a 5 and a 3 year old (one special needs), works full time, and of course… [gestures at everything]. It’s useful to hear that you all think that these kinds of stressors and fatigue could lead to these sorts of issues. Not to mention hormones, peri-menopause, and other not so terrible things.

She’s still going to see that neurologist I think. But your comments will keep us from spinning in the mean time.
I think going to the doctor will allow you both to take a look at what's going on. Dementia? Maybe but....probably not.  Working full-time, having a kid, etc....making mistakes is normal. Is she getting a solid 8 hrs of sleep on a regular basis? Often a chronic bad sleep habit can cause this. 

Fingers crossed that it's nothing serious.
Following up with a doctor is wise.  Be aware that perimenopause can cause symptoms like this as well as can anxiety.  Dementia is possible but unlikely.
Its possible its dementia,but it could be other medical issues as well. Glad that she is being on top of it though
Good to be tested. Low thyroid unchecked can look like dementia, and is reversible. 
That said, primary progressive aphasia (PPA) is an early onset dementia that can manifest in younger people(typically 50s). It first shows up as language difficulties, word finding or mixing up sounds, etc. There are different variants: semantic, logopenic, and behavioral.

Hopefully at 38 it is something more routine and treatable.
She should get her hormone levels checked as well- especially estrogen.
I think the term is semantic paraphasia and I only know that because I looked it up because I do it alot too. I think it gets worse for me when I’m under stress that I don’t really recognize or subconsciously am ignoring but I’ve never gone to work early!  I’m interested in what kind of workup you get so I hope you come back and share. I do hope it is nothing bad!

I do agree with the other poster that it is always a good thing to get your financial and legal documents in order. Even if it’s nothing, do it now when you have a reason too so you don’t have to worry about it when it is too late.

Edit: I just want to add that I was told this can be normal, basically like a brain fart. But to seek further evaluation if it becomes more problematic than humorous. So it sounds like you all are making the right moves with the neurologist evaluation.
I was doing this a lot for a while after our son was born and wasn’t sleeping through the night and working full time. It has massively improved since he has gotten older and I get enough sleep and have a little more time for self care. Still see a doctor to be safe but it could be exhaustion.
I started experiencing this as well after my kids were born 11 years ago. So far it has not progressed into dementia though I do worry about it because I have a strong family history of it, including early-onset. It is noticeably worse when I am stressed. If your wife has any kind of anxiety disorder or executive dysfunction it could stem from that. Poblems with speech and planning are common but underrecognized symptoms
Whatever it happens to be, and hopefully just stress, my biggest piece of advise is to make sure you advocate for her. When we were taking my mom to doctors in the beginning her speech was the biggest problem early on and they would ask her questions where she would give a one or two word answer and they wouldn’t see her struggle. We really needed to be there to say no this is real. I think sometimes when the problem isn’t staring the doctor in the face, especially when someone is young and otherwise healthy, they can write it off as someone being dramatic. I’ve been told it can usually take up to 7 years for a dementia diagnosis because it’s not always so cut and dry as I got lost and I don’t remember. So hopefully it’s something small but it sounds like you’re already doing what you can just keep it going :)
