Sorry about your loss. Yeah, the hospital didn't help me much, either. The social worker, she was no help. After months of erratic behaviour and a fall, I did get immediate placement to rehab and she's staying there. 
I don't know how you did it for so long.
I agree. I think the “magic phrase” does work for a lot of people, but so much depends on the hospital, the particular social worker on shift, the time of day (because if it’s almost time to leave they aren’t going to do anything), the size of the city/town, the availability at local facilities. Of all the many hospitalizations for my grandparents we had a decent, kind, helpful social worker maybe twice. 

And not a single doctor ever suggested hospice for either of them, either, though they both could have used it for at least 2-3 years before they passed.
Went through the same thing with both of my parents. Mom became paralyzed and went straight to a rehab center, who then tried to discharge her despite Dad being unable to care for her (in his 70s with Parkinson's himself). Only after involving the state ombudsman were we able to get long term placement.

I then moved in with Dad after he further declined with Parkinson's/dementia. He refused any type of placement or outside help, and I couldn't be with him during the day because of work. Despite falling several times per day, his primary care office refused to do/order anything since he was passing all of their cognitive tests. Eventually he had a very bad fall which sent him to the hospital, and thankfully the doctors there realized his situation was unsafe and arranged placement.

Edit: wording
It depends on the hospital. The for-profit hospitals didn't care, if they thought Medicare wouldn't pay for an extra day or two, they sent him home. When my dad had head trauma and had to go to the county hospital, they refused to discharge him back home. Several doctors told me they would rather keep him there indefinitely than send him back to the unsafe situation. The social workers and legal department at the hospital worked with us to be sure Dad was going somewhere where he'd at least be fed and kept clean. They were willing to help me go to court to get guardianship of both of my parents, even though we didn't end up doing that (they thought mom had dementia too, because they couldn't understand why she would starve dad otherwise.) They got adult protective services involved so that my mom wouldn't be able to just take him home once he was discharged to a nursing home .
Thank you. I'm sorry you are going through this.
Oooh Lad. 

Not going to go into detail, but currently going through something similar with my demented Mother.

It’s not fun.
I am so sorry. You were supposed to tell the hospital social worker after a three day admission, the following magic phrase: there is no one fit to take care of the patient and the home is unsafe for her to return to. Then you needed to demand they find a rehab center for her. That would have covered 100 days of care. After that it would have been self pay, per month, or if she had long term care insurance, that would have covered her. Medicare does not cover long term care. If she qualified for Medicaid then they would have picked up the bill after exhausting her financial resources. If in PA, they would come after the child to repay as well. Lastly, she should have been eligible for hospice. They should have come to the home to administer drugs and help create a palliative care plan. My grandma was exactly the same. Refused care, would yell, scream, and rush people out of her home. It was not until a fireman talked with her after she fell and was on the floor for hours while everyone was away (she lived alone) that she finally agreed to go to the hospital.
I just want to add, the magic phrase is not "the home situation is not safe," but "this is an unsafe discharge."

If the home situation is unsafe, the staff and doctors will only advise you on how to improve the home.  

If the senior in question is unsafe at home no matter what, and skilled nursing is a better choice, then you can usually at least get them to put on the brakes.
Oof... I am so sorry... I called APS on my mom last year and yep... no help whatsoever... She's a hoarder, she's paranoid, she's delusional, at one point she had no working toilets in a house with 3 toilets but, I guess for their standards, she's fine!
I could’ve wrote this post myself as I’m currently going through it. Mom left skilled care on Saturday. She is basically bed bound, on oxygen, and can’t take care of herself in the least. I went over all of this with the discharge planning team and they still released her. Now it is Tuesday morning and she’s back in the hospital. I don’t know what the future will bring and I am very scared. I have called all the resources I am aware of. Even got APS involved at one point. I just don’t know what to do other than leave her to her own devices, which seems cruel and possibly deadly. Hugs to you all.
But they had to agree to go to rehab. My mother refused.
>*And not a single doctor ever suggested hospice for either of them, either, though they both could have used it for at least 2-3 years before they passed.*

Someone else said the same thing.  The doctors were terrified to suggest hospice.
Where I live hospice can only be referred if the person is within six months of death.
My mother was such a hassle at the hospital that even though it was in the middle of the worst of Covid (late 2020) they ended up letting me in pretty much any time because she was so difficult even the professionals could barely handle her - extreme narcissist. My dad is still quite capable - overweight and a history of heart problems in the past but he still golfs several times a week, plays in bridge tournaments, safely drives wherever he wants etc. If the hospital gave her hassle, she'd let them arrange a caregiver and then as soon as she got home if we left them to help her when she wanted one of us (basically all the time for anything more then getting her a glass of water) she'd start calling for help and screaming that they were hurting her (they weren't) and they'd freak out and call their office and leave. Can't blame them. Absolute nightmare.
Past tense now but thank you for your sympathy.
And I imagine you've found out that even with a dementia diagnosis it's not simple to get them declared incompetent and take control.
We did tell them exactly that. They did find rehab. She refused to go and they can't/won't actually force someone who is competent. Yes, we could have vacated the home and abandoned her to her own devices, which would have forced the issue but my father, who is one of the best people I have ever had the honor to know, would never do that. And because of that, I wouldn't abandon him to that either.

So yes, you do have options, they are just pretty drastic.
Wtf does APS do??
Hugs back. I wish I could tell you what works but I've got nothing. Hang in there.
Yeah, and mine signed herself out AMA. She won’t accept help from anyone except my dad and I. And dad’s no spring chicken. (For the record - neither am I). I’m not sure what we are going to do once I get hurt when lifting/moving her. So far no pressure sores, but it’s probably only a matter of time. Social services are no help as, like OPs mom, mine is mentally competent - just stubborn, somewhat thoughtless, somewhat demanding, and occasionally just like her mother was (a right, royal bitch). At least dad and I can commiserate with each other.
The patient can refuse, but if the family says the home is unsafe and no one can care for her, they have to find a placement. By taking her home, you removed that obstruction for the hospital.
This can often be grounds enough for incompetence.   There may be legal fees, but it is location dependent.
I can understand that, honestly. Lots of people aren’t ready to accept the truth, and doctors and nurses often have to bear the brunt of that. At the same time, lots of people have no idea what hospice really can do, and it’s a shame that the patients end up suffering for it.
Yes and no. The patient’s doctor has to certify that the patient could reasonably pass within 6 months. At the end of that time, they can recertify as long as it still seems reasonable. Both of my grandparents were in such poor condition that their primary doctors would have been able and willing to certify them for hospice 2-3 years before they passed, had we been told by the specialists that it was available and needed.
You are correct.   
Fucking APS was asking if she could go back to the shitty 2 story condo she owns and live there, on her own.   


Like, mother fuckers are called Adult PROTECTIVE Services and they want to put a demented 80 y/o that uses a walker and cant go up or down stairs into a two story condo on HER OWN.    
She makes to much  $$ in Social Security to qualify for the Intermediate Medicaid, but doesn't meet the physical qualifications for Nursing Home medicaid - which she would qualify for based on what her SS is.   
She doesn't pass the wandering criteria as she starts her movements with "goal oriented" decisions.  No matter the fact that by the time she's half way to where she set out for she forgets what she set out for in the first place.   
There are dysfunctional family dynamics at play too, but maaaaaaaaaaan I could keep ranting on this subject for a minute...
Then you need to get a power of attorney. I am sorry she was so stubborn. I do get it. Hugs.
This. My mother did the same. Couldn't get around at all on her own but if they insist on leaving, and especially if they are disruptive when thwarted, they just send them home.
I'm sorry. Gosh that has to be so hard. My mom has dementia that started to really disable her thought process as of last September
What if you have a power of attorney? Can you force them to stay in therapy?
I feel for you. Hope you get it worked out at some point. So sad that it often seems that fear, of aging, dying, loosing control or whatever, sometimes seems to make our parents into their own (and ours as well) worst enemies. I wish you luck. And remember to take care of yourself as best you can.
I’m in this situation with my father.  Home isn’t safe, assisted living would be perfect but he makes too much money so it would cost more than he brings in with social security.  It’s a bit soon for a nursing home.  Mentally capable but stubborn.  I live another state and he won’t relo to be closer to me.  He is in rehab now, hoping to get stronger.  I’m sorry about APS and all you are dealing with
