My mom's doctor witnessed her driving erratically in the clinic parking lot and yanked her driver's license on the spot.  That was in 2019 and she complained about it for two years, blaming my sister (who wasn't even in the state at the time).  We told her she was free to get a driver's license whenever she wanted to go to the DMV and re-take the written and driving tests, but somehow she hasn't found the time.  She still bitterly resents not having a car, though she pretends she doesn't \*want\* to drive.  One thing that made her happy was getting her a state ID card from the DMV.  She has no idea it's not a driver's license.  

I don't think any sort of contract would help, because the person with dementia usually thinks they're fine, and the caregiver/doctor/family are exaggerating and don't know what  they're talking about.  They might agree to accept the caregiver/doctor/family's judgement at the time of the agreement, but when push comes to shove "I'm fine!!"  

I think the important thing is to get the loved one's abilities assessed by an outside person, whether doctor or other qualified person.  Then if they are deemed too impaired to drive, immediately take away both the driver's license and the car.  This is important, because if you are the responsible person and allow access to the car you can have some liability if there's a crash.  

Get financial power of attorney first so you have authority to sell the car.
Greenswizzle is right in that any kind of contract with your  will be denied/disputed by your loved one.  

My mom refused to give up driving and we were all scared to death.  She was able to fake her mental state well enough that she actually got her license renewed.  Fortunately, I think her insurance agent had enough conversations with Mom know something was off, and sent her a standard form requiring her to get a doctor to sign off that she was OK to drive.  I called the doc ahead of the assessment appointment and told him my concerns.  Thankfully he knew Mom wasn’t right and checked no wrt her ability to drive.  Mom was furious, and even after hiding keys, she would find an extra we didn’t know about and drive the car.  Finally the keys were put in a safe, and then we sold the car.  Soon after that we moved her to assisted living. Best of luck to you.
Yes, my mother was  evaluated by an OT concerning her driving skills. This was back in 2019, and she promptly failed this test.

We placed the "blame" on the doctor & the OT who told her that she shouldn't be driving.
Yes. Had an official OT evaluation at one of the post acute rehabilitation centers. It apparently involved both a cognitive evaluation as well as reaction time testing in a simulated driving environment. She failed the cognitive portion significantly and almost passed the reaction time, but missed it by a hair. This cost was out of pocket but it was worth it just to officially take driving off the table. 

Of course, she said she did not realize that she would not be able to drive after the test and would not have taken it if she had known. She was very, very mad for a long time afterwards and is still upset that she cannot drive. She was very independent so obviously this is very difficult. But since she moved to a new place, I did not think there was any way she was going to be able to find her way around or even get out of the driveway without significant difficulty. She has driving services at her new place but she is not really organized enough to get that together for herself. I certainly feel bad about that but there’s so much I can do. I take her to all her appointments as it is. She has made friends with cars so I guess it kind of worked out socially.

For me, it supported my opinion that she really should not be driving anymore. She never got lost but had several fender benders and her car was pretty dinged up. It’s still very difficult for me as I feel like to took away a part of her independence. But I have to keep reminding myself that they worst thing that could’ve happened would have been she killed herself or someone else and I would have to be the one to clean up the mess and ultimately live with the consequences.
It was never official for my mom. Her doctor knew she'd be unreasonable and angry if she had her license pulled so we went a different route. The doctor had switched one of her meds, something insignificant in reality, but told Mom until she'd evaluated how she handled the meds, she didn't want her to drive. Mom agreed. She kept forgetting to ask about it when we went back to the doctor and the phone was too confusing for her to dial numbers she didn't know by heart, reading them and inputting them was too much, so she never asked. Sometimes she'd demand that one of us needed to call for her but oops, we didn't get through, or it was after hours or whatever the excuse of the moment was. My brother lived with her and took the keys to her SUV, kept them in a locked box except when he was using the vehicle.
This is exactly my fear as well, hurting herself or someone else. I told her I have no doubt she can operate the vehicle, but if someone were to pull out in front of her, would she be able to react in time?  When is the day going to come when she pulls up to a stop sign and doesn’t know what it means? She’s gotten lost several times and has trouble on lightly marked rural roads so those kinds of things worry me quite a bit since she lives in a very rural area
True because it involved her safety and also others.
