If she's not diagnosed then you won't know if it's something else that is reversible.  A dementia diagnosis is largely based on excluding all of the other possibilities. If her financial POA is the "springing" variety, which requires a doctor to say she is incapacitated, then you will need the diagnosis to use it. If she does have dementia, she's not missing out on much by not taking the standard "treatment" meds. If you ever have to treat severe behaviors however, such as aggression or delusions, the medications for that are very effective and essential and it is helpful to know what kind of dementia she has because some medications cause a dangerous adverse reaction in certain types of dementia.
Yes yes yes get the POA. Also, does she take any vitamins? I got my mom to take the pills disguised as vitamins. But the pills won’t reverse anything, just slow it down. Eventually I opted for “quality of life”, which meant putting her on lexipro which took the edge off of her and brought my mom back to a new normal.
The diagnosis made me feel safer. My grandmother tells people that I’m stealing from her purse, sneaking in her room at night to shake her, and other things like that. I worried before her diagnosis that someone would come after me for the things she makes up so I feel better knowing that a doctor can back me up about her having delusions.
I'm so sorry you're facing this. I see you're an only child, and that she is without family too. I'm in the same boat. It's a lot. 

For whatever it's worth, if you do indeed get the diagnosis, you will likely need to adopt a slew of white lies to keep her safe. This will likely include hiding or disguising medicine. Before I moved my mum into long term care, she got a pudding cup for dessert with several of her meds crushed up into it. (Check with doctors if you go this route... Some meds can't be crushed.) None of this will feel good or normal, but "therapeutic lies" are quite common in managing dementia.

Best wishes to you.
The diagnosis will help with services as her disease progresses, also medications can help, but apparently she won’t comply. 

It will be easier for you to have the dx now, and arrangements for medical and full POA, an advanced directive is a good idea, too. Having the dx in place helps because it will be avail you of help from Alzheimer’s Association, aid with daily living, enrichment programs, caregiver respite, etc rather than having to scramble to get testing and dx later.
Agree with the other posters here.  Getting a diagnosis even without testing it can open you up to resources that you might not have without it.

Mine is also very resistant to any new meds. She also functions well still and is independent but with declining executive function.  She wants to read and study the package inserts and then perseverates on all the negative side effects. All of them!!!! OMG. So frustrating.

In the end, it is a battle that I’m not really interested in fighting. If she is willing to take them, fine. If she’s not, fine. I told her it will only help her but can’t cure her. Her decision. She takes the antidepressants from her psychiatrist so so I’m fortunate for that.
In California, not sure about other states, (at least some) memory care places cannot legally accept someone without a dementia diagnosis from a physician. It limited our options because my parent did not have one.
Diagnosis is very important when help is needed later on. A diagnosis can allow a person to be eligible for services such as home health care, memory unit in a care facility (this may be very important later on!), Hospice, etc. 
Diagnosis will also tell other providers important information about what other medical treatment is acceptable. For example, a person with dementia should not have general anesthesia unless it is a VERY serious condition because it often leads to a lot of deterioration.

Medications can help slow the progression of symptoms of dementia, but will not treat it. 
If it causes a fight everyday to try to get her to take it, it may not be worth it. Like you commented earlier, quality of life is most important.

Good luck. Make sure to take care of yourself and get support when you need it.
Sorry you have to deal with all this. Remember to look out for yourself, as they get more difficult you are going to have to make decisions to take of your own sanity first.
Diagnosis can actually be very helpful in getting funding, but only in certain situations. It is unfortunately a slippery slope. However, it would be beneficial and helping her get proper treatment as well.
I am in a similar boat as you: my mom’s situation and staging sounds really close to yours. I wish i had answers, All I can say is that you sound like a caring, supportive family member.
I’m not sure about in the States but in Canada it allows for social service help, tax write-offs, nursing home assistance, etc. Plus just having it seems to allow others more compassion somehow (sad though that might be).
Good points, thank you!
She does take vitamins and some blood pressure meds. She will NOT take anything to lower her cholesterol, apparently tried statins 15 years ago and stopped them… so trying to minimize damage with vascular dementia and refusing to lower cholesterol is an impasse. She is still pretty lucid and independent, so it would behoove us to get her on a regimen. She isn’t suicidal… just not thinking clearly, for obvious reasons/denial.

Have the POA, just not sure the diagnosis means a whole lot legally or anything if she won’t get help.
Also very good points, thank you!
Thank you so much for the advice. It sounds a lot like trying to pill my cats… oh brother, I am not looking forward to this. Luckily I have a marvelous husband to lean on.
Great, thank you. Now I have to convince her to go have the cognitive test.
Oh, I think we may have the same mother! She does precisely the same thing with side effects, so bloody frustrating!

Agreed. I know this won’t end well, regardless. I have to manage my stress too.

Thank you for sharing. My thoughts are with you.
Interesting! Thank you for that tidbit.
Thank you. I appreciate the input. Honestly, I’m trying to determine how hard to push her to get diagnosed earlier rather than later. At some point, it will become evident to such a degree that a cognitive test is redundant. Trying to decide how to proceed… guess I can just wait, since she is so resistant now.
Thank you. I’m sure I will be back here for more advice, this seems like a great community we have here.
Thank you.
Thank you. I’m trying to weigh what is best for both of us… I don’t want to upset her, but don’t want to let this go unchecked for too long. It is a tough spot to be in, and I can understand her trepidation.
Good points, thank you.
Doesn’t mean anything but eventually she will begin to loose it. Does she go to a church or can confide in another family member? These may help. Good luck.
With my Dad, I gave him an online test and said: “I know I’m traveling for work a lot, but I’m seeing things in you which remind me of Nonno, Nonna and their siblings. Please take this test which will help us to know what is going on.” Initially he was pissed, but he called me the next day and asked for help choosing a Neurologist.
Maybe reach out to her primary care physician when she has an appointment coming up and tell them your concerns. They will not be able to share information with you due to privacy laws, but can take information about a patient. This could prompt the conversation and hopefully testing. 
She could be resistant due to fear of a diagnosis or it could be due to her type of dementia. Certain dementias sometimes do allow the person to have very limited insight into even any memory loss or confusion (if any insight at all).
No church, I’m her only child… she is also an only child and a widow. I’m literally all there is. The burden lies firmly on me.
Oh, that is brilliant… do you still have a link? That might be handy. So sorry you have had to go through this too.

In my conversation with her yesterday, it became apparent that she has forgotten something pretty major… and she just glossed over it. I didn’t alarm her, I just made note of it.
Luckily, I have been in contact with her dr about the concerns. Dr wants to get the cognitive test done… I asked if their office could reach out to mom as a follow up to make that appointment. They won’t. I have to get it scheduled.
I hope it helps, I can’t recall which it sad since he was dx in 2007 and passed in 2017, but they are called SAGE tests and are available from many sources. 

My Mum has vascular dementia now, and was very resistant to her dx, but when I went to her Neurologist with her - she has a migraine history - the Dr gave her a verbal test of about five questions which she failed miserably and we went from there. I hope you find something that works for you and wish you peace. Not to sound trite, but please take care of yourself, too.
I see.. how impaired is she? If you were to  schedule it and just tell her she has an appointment, would she refuse to go/do the testing?
If so, it may be reasonable just to wait. If you are not currently needing the services and you already said she will not take medication, waiting would be fine. Some fights just aren’t worth fighting immediately. There will come a point when you will likely be able to just tell her it’s an appointment.
Thank you, I appreciate it! My mother most likely has vascular too (uncontrolled high cholesterol for 15 yrs, her mother had vascular too) and seems to be in a good space at the moment. There were some incredibly bizarre things going on in Dec and Jan, and I noticed some oddities over the last few years. Time to figure it out… she is reminding me of her mom.
That is my line of thinking… just wait. 

She was seriously unhinged for several weeks, seems to be getting back to more normal behavior, but is doing weird stuff like compulsive lying and forgetting some things she shouldn’t forget - like things about me that we have discussed my entire life (shared spiritual beliefs). I know with vascular, it can manifest in spells that leave after effects. I think this is what is happening, based on what her mother did… it is all a bit familiar.
Honestly, if I pulled that maneuver of scheduling the appointment and tricking her, there would be hell to pay. She is already being nasty and abusive unnecessarily, I’m sure she’d eat me alive.
I printed out a Sage test for hubs. He was spitting mad but took it. I didn't "grade" it - said thanks and then set it aside. 

Then at the Doc appt, which was supposedly for his stomach issues, they did another verbal test. He almost walked out, but the nurse said that they do that for everyone. 

Got the diagnosis that appt. Sigh...
Oh, I bet that was so difficult for you too in so many ways. The SAGE tests that I found last night are supposed to be taken to the dr for grading… you found some that you can grade?
I didn't grade. He couldn't do the clock right, nor two other things - one with boxes and one with something else. He forgot the words he was supposed to memorize. I did sneak a copy into the Dr for their records.

When he was there, the nurse read him a story about Jill who married Jack and who was an architect and they moved to Chicago. He didn't remember their names, what she did or where they moved. The nurse did other written tests too, while I was sitting there. The clock one he didn't get right. I didn't see the rest of that test. 

We now have an elephant in the house. Its gray, just like our walls and trim.....
Oh, big hugs to you, internet friend. I was looking at those tests last night… think I may message her dr and ask if those tests would be useful in her diagnosis. Thank you so much for sharing your story. So sorry that you’re going through this crap too.
