Please do not think this an inappropriate place for you to be. If your mom has the beginnings of dementia, even if it’s at the mild cognitive impairment level, then this sub is for you. 

Why don’t you share with us what you’ve seen and what you think your next steps could be? There’s a lot of knowledge here, so I’ll bet we can help you. Also, do not hesitate to use the various Alzheimer’s/dementia advocates. They are there to help all of us, not just those in the advanced stages.
r/Alzheimers
r/AgingParents
r/eldercare
r/caregivers
r/CaregiverSupport
r/caregiversofreddit (small)

You're not tying anything or anyone up; always welcome! Sometimes you have to search for part of a keyword before you get a hit. If all else fails, try the Github Map of Reddit (probably better on a big screen rather than mobile.)

And: wow, you've got a lot on your plate, and a big heart. Blessings and thanks for rolling up your sleeves.

One starting point for IRL contact might be your "area council on aging"—search online for that phrase, and add a state or county… it may take a few calls to get to the right place. 

You might also contact their health insurance provider. I know, yuck, US healthcare is a shell game, MLM, long con. But it is in their interest to keep your family from catastrophic stuff warranting emergency medical care. I'm finding out that the (politely) squeaking wheel gets the grease—like a case manager who can take an overview.

Best wishes, ❤️
You should look up your local Area Agency on Aging for help. Bring up your concerns about your mom possibly having dementia. I really can't imagine a situation where it's "too soon" to get help especially since it sounds like the other people in the household aren't prepared to care for her?
Small help. But can you get and would they accept Meals on Wheels? In my parent's declining years it was a godsend in terms of keeping them fed after cooking and grocery shopping became too hard
The county she resides in has Aging Services. They are a wealth of information
Thank you so much, appreciate the support. My story is long but I will honestly just try to bulletpoint the highlights here:

*My husband and I are mid-40’s, no kids, live 60-90 minutes from my parents depending on traffic.
*My disabled brother does not work, has never worked, lives with my parents and functions at a 1st grade level. Could never live alone. Not sure if my folks have him practice using a phone. 
*Dad developed a chronic illness 3 years ago. His outlook is poor because he refuses to take care of himself - poor hygiene, won’t stop smoking, won’t exercise. He is almost 70.
*Mom is early 70’s and has had some undiagnosed form of mental illness her entire life. She has always been mean, yet unreasonably fearful and anxiety ridden, could never drive or work. Has always slept excessively, chain smoker, gambling addict, animal hoarder. About 5 years ago the meanness escalated to outright aggression, she doesn’t remember past events properly, starts telling same stories over and over in close succession, got confused trying to do the simplest tasks like ordering from a menu at a restaurant. If the extended family gently calls her out on her memory, she lashes out like a caged animal. 
*Both parents now live in chairs/bed. They no longer attend any family functions and have sworn off them for the rest of their lives. Mom has developed moderate/continuous tremors and needs help getting to restroom and eating, which Dad provides. However, due to his chronic illness Dad gets frequent infections and is lethargic and nauseous. Both parents have lost significant weight. I believe their nutrition is terrible and they subsist off snacks and frozen meals.
*I have a cousin who is paid by the state to care for my brother on a very part time basis. He ends up helping my parents as well (ie grocery shopping) but so far no personal care involved and he draws the line at that point. 

I worry about both my parents, and at the same time am so frustrated that they won’t take care of themselves. They are a fall risk at any moment, and I think they are in fragile enough shape that both will soon not be able to make it to the restroom timely. I worry about my brother because of my parents. My parents have turned into depressed, angry people but refuse to accept outside help or go to a facility (I realize my mom may not be capable of making that type of decision, but my dad can). I have a demanding career and cannot quit or reduce my hours to care for my parents, nor do I want to due to the rather fractured relationship with mom. My parents insist that my brother remain in their house until the day he dies, yet In my opinion the house really isn’t fit for any of them to live in now!  To complicate all of this, my husband and I desperately want to move out of state but feel trapped. I can’t talk to my dad alone about all this because my parents are always together, and I can’t text him because she reads all his text messages.

To sum it up, I feel like I can’t help them but can’t not help them, and I feel like they are setting me up for a complete mess when the first one passes away and then eventually both, because the custody situation with my brother is unclear and I don’t know what the law will allow. Plus, what about all the animals?! I did just contact a lawyer for the first time today to help navigate some of this, and am waiting for a call back. I don’t know what else to do. This is all stressing me out every moment of every day. I feel like my parents are going to force my hand because I will eventually need to call social services, and they will never forgive me for it.
Oh my gosh this is really helpful - I’ve already joined a couple of these subs based on your suggestions. Thank you thank you thank you!
I’ve never even thought about it but after what I saw this weekend, I will definitely check into it. Thank you!
