No it's not best to torture him with reliving that pain over and over. I've never wore understood how people can believe that.

With my mom, when she asked where my dad was, I'd just tell her, "Right where you left him" which was 100% true but not where she thought she left him. It satisfied her because to her it meant Dad was home watching TV and didn't feel like traveling to see her. 

Saying something like, "She's not at home right now" hopefully will satisfy him without "lying"... Although compassionate lies are considered by most to be acceptable, to keep dementia patients from reliving painful events or going through something upsetting for no good reason.
Lie. It’s the compassionate thing to do.

(I lie to my wife who has dementia every day for the reason you mention.)

It kills me but it provides her some relief.
It's called therapeutic lying and as mentioned by others here, is the compassionate approach. People living with dementia have memory loss. And as such can not retain new information. Think of it as lying to the dementia not your grandfather. When he asks about his wife you can reply by saying...are you looking for her because you want to tell her something or you want to be near her? Provide a choice and then redirect based on his answer. Reminisce and talk about happy thoughts. 
Therapeutic lying has some limitations...do not embellish or make promises. So you could say "grandma isn't here right now. Was there something you wanted to tell her or you just wanted to be near?" Do not go on a say something like...she'll visit tomorrow, etc. Because that is not kind. Hope this helps.
My dad was diagnosed 22 years ago, I made the mistake of trying to make him “realize” that he was mistaken about everything. So I had the bright idea to take him to my grandparents grave to prove to him that they were gone. I learned a very hard lesson that day and also inadvertently tore my dads heart out. 

When he realized that they were gone and when he realized he was losing his mind. He was totally defeated and I felt so terrible, it wasn’t my intention. It was like it was his first time realizing they were gone and realizing his diagnosis again

So in short

Yes! LIE!
I think of it as they're living in a parallel world inside their own head, their reality is not the same as our reality.  By working within that realm I'm not lying, I'm joining their reality.

And really, what's the point of trying to force what I 'know' is true in my world, when that world no longer exists for them? It's needless pain and sorrow that can easily be avoided by a small adjustment on my part. 

But it is something that some in my family really struggle with and they have a hard time seeing that as what's best, especially if you've been raised to believe strongly in honesty as a virtue. Trying to get them to understand they need to learn a new set of rules specific to living with dementia is challenging.
In dementia care we are trained to lie about things like this. The reason being that those with dementia only have their emotions with them and current thoughts. You put their emotions first, and it is not fair to put them through this tormenting cycle of reliving that news. I highly recommend looking up reputable sources on training for caregiving with those with dementia and presenting these findings to your mom.
Absolutely lie if that spares the trauma to both sides.  There's no use in pushing the truth when it brings repeated pain.  I avoid talking much about mom for the same reason - after 65 years with mom, he usually breaks down if I talk about her.  To spare the pain, it's easier to let him bring her up when and if he does.
I work at a nursing home, and “lying” is honestly my go to when it comes to this sort of stuff. It’s the most humane thing to do
I worked in a memory care ward and the only thing that ever came from the residents being told the truth was them being devastated for the rest of the day. No reason to hurt them with knowledge they're just going to forget in the morning. Lie to him so he doesn't spend every day learning over and over again that he just lost the love of his life.
My mum was at the stage where we needed to tell her. My dad was such an integral part of her day-to-day and she needed answers. Eventually, after a year she's accepted that he's gone, but I've reinforced the positive aspects of their relationship and focused on gratitude for him. She still waits for him every day until she remembers he's gone, but reminiscing helps her cope. It's very individual to be honest. The stage she's at allows her to retain some recent knowledge of events. So she has some peace, but we're a year in. Grief amplifies the dementia response and she's had a hard time processing it. 

If lying is maintaining the peace he feels and he can't process the reality, it's a kindness. 

I'm so sorry for your loss.
Why not say it differently? Is he religious? If so, she’s visiting old friends… (dead ones, but leave this out). Not religious, just say she’s not available.
This same thing happened to my grandpa. He would ask many times a day about my grandma after she died. At first everyone told him she died snd it was like starting the grieving process over for him every time. It made him do upset and was very sad. It got to the point that instead of giving him feel destroyed every day we would tell him she was fine and that’s all it took to ease his mind. In the end it was the kinder option for him. Nothing is gained by them being so upset.
I’ll just say she’s out to the supermarket and will be back soon. There’s no point because he would just ask again and again, it’s so painful for him.
I think lying is the easy call.  What is gained? I know it feels attend, but we did this with our mother, both with dad, who had passed a few years before but she started forgetting this and asking where he was, and with our brother who we lost after the point when she would have been able to process it.  It was tough to not tell Mom her eldest child had died, but it was the right thing to do.  She would not have been able to actually mourn him and would have just learned about it over and over (if, at that point, she was alert and oriented enough to remember him)
Yes
LIE! LIE!
My mother would cry about her parents all the time. An SSRI (Lexipro) helped a lot. The dose is just 25% of a typical dose because of side effects (increased confusing, poorer physical coordination), but it took the edge off of anxiety and sadness for her.
My cousin passed away just a few months ago, leaving her son to care for her 95 year old mother.  He was doing the same thing. Every time she asked where her daughter was, he told her that she’d passed.  He told me she deserved to know. I didn’t agree then, and I don’t agree now. I think it’s cruel to make them relive the loss over and over. When she asked me I told her she was at the store.
My dad often asks where "mother" is. I don't know if he means his mom or my mom. The answer is the same, though. She moved back to Washington. Lie, lie, lie.
Yes, the Alzheimer’s support person on the ALZ connect hotline mentioned something like “strategic lying” or “therapeutic lying”. 

My mom keeps asking about my dad and I end up retelling the whole story (who he was, how they met, how he died etc). Like you - I’m not comfortable “therapeutic lying” for this yet - so usually I just say “I don’t feel like talking about it right now”, and that works (especially if we went over it a few times already that hour / day).
My grandmother often asks where her cat is. He hides and avoids her because she pulls his tail and fur (unintentionally, she's just trying to pet him).

But we just tell her he's sleeping under the bed and not to wake him, because if she thinks he's missing it sets her off for the rest of the day.
You might be able to finnese your response like "She isn't here right now."  "No, I don't know when she'll be back."  "Look!  A hummingbird!"
If he is having to ask every two hours or so he is not capable of retaining the new information. It does him no good. Did you ever have a separate vacation house anywhere or have separate family vacations? If do you could say she's gone to the beach/mountains/wherever with one of her relatives. Or if he's lost a sense of time and doesnt know thst nightime=time to be at home maybe say she's at work or shopping.
I agree with most others who are recommending lying.

However, I don’t think we should judge your mom for her decision. One of my core fundamental values is honesty. We didn’t even do Santa because we didn’t want that dishonesty. 

Having to deal with my spouse with Alzheimer’s and trying to reconcile that the idea of lying is okay has been/still is a HUGE issue.

Especially with teens at home who I am trying to teach the same value of truth overriding discomfort, etc.

So maybe your mom has the same belief and/or struggle. It isn’t easy and whatever she chooses, whether you agree or not, is something to support. Have you discussed it with her (as to why she wants to tell the truth)?
This is such a lovely comment and great advice
I agree, I just don’t know how to make my mom and my aunt understand
“Think of it as lying to the dementia, not your grandfather.” That such a great perspective.
Ohh gosh I'm so sorry for that, it's so sad.  Yeh, trial and error, and moving goalposts.  We can only do our best, for them.   \* hugs \*
So sorry for your losses, very sad.   \* hugs \*
I suggest this all the time, but if you can, get them to watch some Teepa Snow videos on YouTube. It got through to my sister when she was like your mom.
Thank you, I’m watching her videos now
