It sounds like you might want to try talking to a doctor. Sometimes depression can cause a lot of the symptoms you mentioned.
Honestly this sounds like anxiety and depression. You should be evaluated and treated for these.
The good news is that it's almost 100% certain that your cognitive impairments are completely reversible.  The bad news is that you'll have to take responsibility for your health and work to repair it.  Listen to what the professionals have told you and make a healthy lifestyle your top priority.  Eat healthy food, exercise, and get 8 hours of sleep a night. Also, follow the course of treatment given to you by your physician and psychologist. Do this for six months.  It's almost a certainty that you'll feel better.  When that happens, take a moment to feel grateful.
I have the same thing, too. You are too young to develop dementia.  If you did, it would be considered so rare you’d be a case report in a medical journal. Mine is due to depression and anxiety and not taking care of myself the way I should. I’m a size six and don’t have cholesterol issues so what we have in common is depression/anxiety and that will definitely cause the mental fog
Were you close to your grandparents? You may be suffering from grief and identifying with the pain and tribulations they went through (dementia). Depression of some kind is likely in any case.
Dude eating an edible months ago doesn’t deteriorate your mental health. Sounds like you a grappling with school and the weight it puts on, coupled with anxiety over dementia  on your paternal side. Really you are dealing likely with depression and anxiety. You should seek attention of a medical professional.

If you want to relive some anxiety, go take a dna test from 23 and me and do the medical review, which includes the enzyme for late onset Alzheimer’s.  It’s $200 but man did I relive some stress knowing I didn’t have the markers since both my mom and abuela had it.
Oh my, I can totally understand your worry! Please see your doctor and don’t let them brush you off. There are lots of things that can cause cognitive impairment, and a lot of them are treatable!
You can have MCI at that age for a host of reasons. But also brains can heal given the right conditions. ❤
Yeah its really scary. I worry every day that I'm going to develop dementia. I was told by my doctor and psychiatrist that I don't have dementia but I want to go to a neurologist and maybe get another opinion.
I guess the experience with the edible was so terrifying that I developed the fear of dementia
Hearing that makes me want to add anxiety to your diagnosis. Save yourself some money and time and listen to your doctor and psychiatrist.
