Have you spoken to your father's attending physician at all? What are their ideas for helping your father not feel so scared/anxious/agitated? It sounds like it may be time for some anti-anxiety medications, so that your father can be safely cared for by others, and also so he won't feel so frightened of what's happening around him. He is most certainly experiencing this because of his cognitive impairment--he is scared because things are changing around him and he has no knowledge or recollection of those changes.

Whether or not you want to visit is entirely up to you. If you go to visit earlier in the day, you may catch him when he's much calmer and not so agitated. Typically with dementia patients, agitation starts to happen later in the day (called "sundowning".) Or wait until your father's anxiety is being managed by medications first.
This is entirely my personal experience with my grandmother - she stayed at home with me, my parents, and a nurse. Every few weeks she would complain about the nurse stealing a black coloured wallet of hers, which in reality, she never had. To keep her calm, we would help her and pretend to look for it, talk to the nurse (she was aware that the wallet doesn't exist and didn't mind playing along) in front of her and slowly we would start to distract her. Eventually (sometimes in a few minutes, sometimes in a few hours) she would forget about the wallet. It is something you can try if your father did not actually have any cheques and is confused.
Its awful, I'm sorry.  My Dads in a home (sent there by the hospital) and has sundowners pretty bad some days.  I can still calm him down.  But I've learned over time.  If he's genuinely scared I'll stay on the phone.  But when it switches to anger I'm done because I'll get nowhere, he just gets angrier.  I get exactly what you're saying here.  

You might take the time to tell or write your perspective of your father for the staff if you think it will help them look after him better.  But don't let them guilt you because you KNOW your father.  And they are being paid to look after him.  It can take some time for them to sort out the right medications to calm him and also to find the best times to give them.
I won't be able to speak with my father's attending physician until tomorrow.. The hospital has been shockingly bad at communications throughout all of this, but, yes, I do intend to ask if my father has been put, or will be put, on anti-anxiety meds. He is already taking something mild... they probably need to give him something stronger.
Yes... I can't even begin to imagine what my father must be going through... That kind of terror.. it must be like drowning.
I had definitely planned to go to the hospital early in the day, since I have experienced that my father is somewhat better then.. Though, you are right, I want to find out about his meds first, if possible..
Yep, ask about medications and their suggestions. Go from there.
Is there a chance he hasn't been taking his prescription which might lead to him being more erratic? I know how hard it can be to communicate with Healthcare sometimes. I'm sorry you're going through this and I hope things clear up once you speak to your pop's physician.
