I'm not sure if it's normal, but it is in our case. 
But it could also be just because of her age, she's 86.
Shes always been ok with walking, she's still walks from time to time, but we've had to assist her as she's actually fallen before.

She just walks and then all of a sudden drops. 
Shes also had a few cases of vertigo.
Hope that helps
I imagine some has to do with the medication. My grandma recently got put in a nursing home where the doctor upped her meds and she’s been confused and going downhill ever since being there. Two months ago she was walking fine and now she’s been falling and bruising. A week and a half ago she fell and broke her hip and her shoulder. Before then the nurses had to loosely restrain her to her chair when she ate because she’s very hyper and would make herself fall off and bruise. I think it’s fairly common but like the other poster, I think it also has something to do with age. She’s 88 now.
So my grandma went to PT for a bit since her last major fall resulted in hip fracture. 

The issue has become her spatial awareness is really bad so she doesn’t realize where her body is on relation to space. She also forgets to close drawers and such so she trips over those, legs on chairs, ect. 

I think part of it could be dementia but im a huge advocate for diet and exercise. Def consult with a doctor prior to changing diet or adding an exercise. I had an aunt who is “certified in keto nutrition” (she did those short online courses that let you be certified) and decided that diet would work for my grandma simply because it works for her. Obviously that’s not the way you should go about changing the diet of a 70+ year old so this resulted in her having kidney stones and having the keto flu for about a month.
My dads doctor referred us to a physical therapist who in turn gave him a bunch of balancing and strengthening excerises to do with him. 

My dad doesnt have fraility problems yet though.  It was more precautionary for us.
I work with people with dementia in their homes and from what I've seen frailty seems to always come along eventually. Eventually the brain has a hard time communicating with the body and vice versa which leads to balance and spatial awareness issues too.
