>He doesn't eat enough or drink enough water when left alone. He also sleeps too much and drinks too much coffee during the day.

I'd advise you to pick your battles. If he's drinking coffee, at least he's drinking. If it won't actively cause him harm it's far easier to just let him be.

My dad fought with me every single day for two weeks straight about mowing the lawn - something well beyond his physical capabilities most days. Finally the weather was right and he seemed lucid enough for me to allow it (while supervising). He refused to wear real shoes and refused to put a catcher on the mower. After 3 hours, he decided (after suggestion) to take a rest and my partner finished the lawn - it was half done at this point and doesn't take 3h for an able person to do. Getting his way is the only thing that stopped him having a meltdown, and it was at the point that I was losing productivity at work (I also wfh) constantly checking on him to ensure he wasn't into the power tools etc.

Working from home with a demented LO is hard. I hope your bosses are very understanding.

&#x200B;

Edit to add - my partner hates having my dad here. Hopefully yours copes better.
So my dad didnt eat enough or drink enough either.  But I knew I would not be able to stand living with my dad.  If you think this is going to hurt your life or marraige, i suggest doing home automation,  cctv cameras, and safety improvements in his home instead.  An occupational therapist can help with making homes safer for seniors though I had to figure out home automation myself.

It has worked for me.  My dad is back to a decent weight when at one time, he was very underweight. 

You can really watch your dad just as much through cameras as you can with him living with you.  I unplugged the stove so he cant set fire to anything.  I got rid of his metal utensils and knives and replaced them with plastic ones,  Water sensors tell me if he turned on water or left tap on for too long.  You can even set up autoturn off of water with the right installations.  Door sensors tell me if hes leaving his home and a smart speaker tells him not to without one of us being there with him.  Alexa is the one that reminds him to eat, which box color his meal is in, and for how long to microwave his meal (there are smart microwaves you can operate remotely too but my dad doesnt need it). and tells him the whole time hes eating to eat his whole meal.  I have a door sensor on the microwave so know the time he ate and can check on my camera recording at that time to see if he ate his whole meal.  If he didnt, i shove a snack in him later through a phone call and watching him eat his whole snack through the cameras.  95% of the time, he never misses a meal without me even being involved.  Though he only eats his whole meal 60% of the time.  I bumped the calories of each meal up though by using calorically dense foods so he really doesnt need to est the whole thing.  He wasnt doing all the right steps when brushing his teeth either and now that alexa tells him every step, he brushes well enough i dont even need to monitor him.  The speakers i have can detect a fire alarm going off and glass breaking.  A smart thermostat can automate his temporature settings and you can check to see if hes messed up interior temps remotely,

The one safety item that still concerns me is that he has a tub shower instead of just shower.  The occupational therapist suggested a shower bench but he never uses it.  You can have a water valve keep the water turned off and alexa tell him not to shower when you arent there tho if you have this concern too.  He doesnt need to shower every day.

Decaffinated coffee.  Alexa tells him to put on his exercise shoes and do exercise videos every morning.  It turns on the tv and plays the youtube exercise video for him and turns it off when done.  I see my dad doing the videos over the camera recordings.  He does them about 80% of the time which was good enough for me.  A caregiver stops by 5 daya a week and walks with him 1 hour a day so the videos were more to keep him busy.  And frankly, just his exercise videos alone are more exercise than i do lol.
Don't sweat the small stuff; you will have no routine with dementia.
Sometimes with drinking, it is just having it accessible and watching someone else drink. We do that with my Grandma. Sometimes it works well. I hold my cup and drink and she realizes she can drink from her glass too. 
I also got her a bent silicone milkshake straw. That seemed to help her drink easier. She draws up more fluid at a time. Drinking is hit or miss. Try different flavored drink drops.
If he takes meds you may want to keep them in a separate spot and only provide them when it is time to take them. My grandma began taking too many of her meds because she would forget she already took them. It also guarantees she drinks her milk at least twice a day since she gets a glass in the morning and at night.

You will definitely have an adjustment period. But routine helps with that IMO. He may be very angry. My grandma was towards me. She made lots of verbal threats. I think she was grieving for the loss of her independence and a lot of frustration over the whole changing dynamic of our relationship. But she couldn't verbalize it well. One moment she would yell... An hour later we were fine and she was laughing. It can be very Jekyll/Hyde. I spent a lot of time crying and mourning who she was and who I now had to deal with. Just remember to be kind to yourself and remove yourself if you get overwhelmed. It can be a lot.
If you involve the government, you can forget about an inheritance.  Medicaid will take $15,000 per month until he is penniless.  All social security except $100 will be seized.

This sounds modest.  Be firm with what he cannot do, but give him something to do.  I got my patents a dachshund puppy, and it is something that keeps them active.  Depending on where you are, the local senior center is an excellent choice.  

Dementia is more often caused by loneliness, lack of purpose, and drugs.  Seemingly innocuous OTC drugs like Benadryl or PM meds can cause dementia.  Hydrocortisone is a major cause of aggression. Common prescription drugs like benzos cause amnesia at a much higher rate for many people.

My mother had rapid onset dementia after an entirely unnecessary foot surgery at 74.  Local anesthetics can cause serious dementia. The number of prescription drugs she was taking that cause dementia was staggering. 

I bought a three-family house, got full power of Attorney, and ensure they eat a healthy diet and strictly monitor what drugs they are taking, and take them to all doctors appointments, which are few since I got them both off needless medication and changed their diet.  

Whatever you do, understand medicine in this country is about profit not wellness.  Your parents should not go under for surgery unless its life or death.  Doctors hand out drugs needlessly all the time.  Or the wrong ones.

Blood pressure is the most important.  Beta blockers don't have much clinical evidence of success in the elderly and make them tired.  ARB2 blockers don't affect capillaries in the brain or work as well as ACE inhibitors.  The latter are often discouraged because of a minor cough.  They work the best however.  There is growing evidence that drugs like Viagra significantly improve dementia symptoms as they dilate capillaries in the brain.   

Be proactive, understanding, and don't be afraid to use Meals on Wheels or take them to a senior center.  I'm alone in my struggle and have made a real difference in my parents' lives.  Think about what you can do before you put them in a nursing home or assisted living facility.  You may regret it once they are gone.
Sorry you're faced with this decision. 

I had to replace my mum's tea with decaf, maybe you could do the same with the coffee? 

Good luck with the rest. It's not an easy decision to make.
1. Try not to argue or reason with him. He's losing the capacity for reason. Find subtler and more manipulative ways to deal with him. It might feel like lying, but it's really the only way to keep them calm and happy.
2. Find help. It's good that you're looking for a facility, but until then, depending on how his dementia goes, it'll probably really help you to have an aide come in at least a little. That'll be extra helpful when it comes to bathing. It's really common for folks with dementia to a) lose all interest in hygiene and b) fight family caregivers who try to provide hygiene help. But they're often a lot more cooperative with nurses and aides.
3. If there's an 'adult day care' (I hate that name) near you, consider coaxing him into it. The social interaction and activities will keep him engaged and do him good.
4. Night-time restlessness is a huge, huge issue for a lot of families. We have to sleep, but our demented LOs often get worse at night and have wacky sleeping patterns that both make them worse cognitively (anyone gets foggy if they're barely sleeping at night) and disrupt the rest of the household's sleep. Really push for finding routines and, if necessary, meds to get him to sleep through the night, for his sanity and yours.
Watch Teepa Snow videos.  She has a whole series of YT vids on various aspects of dementia.  She’s amazing and they’re very helpful.
I'm in an identical situation to you about 6 months in taking care of my mom.  

I find setting up a routine helps, meals at certain times, walks if possible, making sure they have access to what they like in my case it's tv for my mom. 

As mentioned already by others pick your battles I let most things go or slide unless it's related to bathing once a week, changing her diapers when needed and appointments. If she want to eat lunch at 11 instead of 12, no biggie, if she gets up at 10PM and thinks it's the next day and wants to make coffee, I'll bring her a sleep time tea instead and tell her this is better than coffee, and one of her favorite treats. But if she becomes adamant about coffee at night, I let her win that one.   My mother was a big all day caffeine drinker, I let her have coffee in the morning but switched her to herbal teas for the rest of the day. Also get a big container of Metamucil and give him a glass of that with his breakfast in the morning, it makes taking care of accidents much easier. 

She goes to bed early, but can get up a couple of times a night to have a smoke outside but otherwise sleeps through to the morning. 

You will get annoyed, and it's ok. Some days will be easier than others, don't be hard on yourself, self-care is important so if you have a family member that can help and offers it, take what you can.  If you're a patient person by nature this is going to help tremendously, tone of voice also helps when communicating when trying to get them to do something they don't want to, and psychically leading them gently while being calm. 

I have a sibling that helps out once a month by taking her for a couple of nights, my hardest days I tell myself - "this is temporary, long but temporary hang in there - one day at a time"
Thank you so much for writing all of this out! I didn't know a lot of these things were available.  
  
For OP: only you know your own life and job situation, but if you haven't stayed with your dad for at least a couple days while working, it might be better to trial that first, or just have him stay in his own home once you have an idea of how long the wait for help might be.  It definitely sounds like you're on the right track with getting him some kind of care though.   
  
Some of these suggestions might not be valid since I don't know if you live close to your dad and can visit every day, but one thing that's helped my mom with eating and drinking is just gentle social cues. Get your dad a glass of whatever he prefers and get one for yourself too. Same with food; eat together if possible, and get/make him higher-calorie stuff that you know he loves, since he probably won't remember that he had that same meal the day before or whatever.  If it's a day where my mom's not eating as much, I have some tricks like telling her I'm working on a recipe and asking her to taste whatever. I'm a big fan of the Alzheimer's Association website for communication tips (phrasing, presentation of choices, etc), and I see Teepa Snow (youtube) recommended often.

The coffee might not be a big deal; check with his doctor.   
  
You mention he sleeps too much during the day; has he been to his doctor to discuss this? My mom was taking too much of her blood pressure meds and was getting sleepier than normal during the day. We had to get her a locked pill dispenser.  
  
In case I'm misreading the situation and you feel it's a bit more imminently serious/dangerous, there's also Adult Protective Services. Besides elder abuse, they also investigate cases of elder self-neglect, which might apply to your dad.
