No need to explain it.  She truly won't understand.  It doesn't make her feel better.   By the time she's like "one of those people", she won't even know.  So give her a reassuring, "No, Mom!  You're doing great, right?  What did you make in art class today?  What friends did you see today?"  Keep the moments you have with her, upbeat and positive.   I don't explain things to my Mom.  I agree with her that yes, it must be scary to forget things.  And I'm sorry her "friends" are mean when they hear the same story over and over again from her.  That's rude.  But today, she can tell me all the stories she wants.
I think it's healthy for *us* to understand as much as we can about dementia, that it's progressive and to be as prepared as we can be about what the future might hold. But I don't think it's helpful or necessary to explain this to our LO. 

My husband is very aware that he is progressing, but if he mentions it we reassure him and joke that his memory is better than ours and change the subject. We can't change what's happening, so why spoil the time he has by worrying about things beyond our control?
Definitely don't tell her. Keep her spirits lifted as long as you can.
The only time I have a frank discussion with my husband is if he’s endangering his safety. He’s a super high fall risk. He has done some crazy things like climb up on the bed to pull the ceiling fan chain, he fell off but fortunately landed on his feet. 

My husband really overestimates his capabilities, his memory, and his cognition. Most of the time, I don’t say anything. Even if I do, I don’t say it in a way that seems to upset him. He usually quickly forgets anyway.
"Mum, who knows - everybody's got to get old, some things gonna have to break down eh!"  Yeh, it's sad...
Ii tell my mom it's a day at a time, she's doing great for today and that's all that matters.
"You're not going to be one of them; you'll always be my mom!"
A little fibbing won't hurt. Just assure her that she's doing fine...
The current medical advice on this is that it IS officially ethical to lie to dementia patients, in situations where the truth will only upset them. Always redirect. 

When she's in the early stages it may be a good idea for her to know and to realize the gravity of it, to sign important legal documents and discuss serious things, her biggest and final wishes that she feels strongly about. Otherwise no. At best it just makes her sad. At worst, her paranoia can take over and she believes that when you tell her she has dementia, that you are trying to gaslight her. Then she won't trust you or enjoy the time spent with you.
Thanks for the reassurance. It came up this week because I was asking her how she might want to live it up, like a vacation, experience, something she's always wanted to buy for herself, etc. That she could enjoy herself now while she is more able to enjoy it. We came up with a couple local ideas, but nothing bigger. Then she wondered why I was asking, how long she has, etc. We have a good family friend whose mom lived with dementia for decades so we always laugh that she could end up being like Alice anyway, then she'll remember a few stories about Alice.

She's happy where she is and luckily has found her people, understanding friends who don't mind that they all never remember each other's names.

Thanks for sharing.
As someone who has worked as a nurse aide for a bit over 20 years, and a good deal of experience dealing with dementia patients...I 2nd what RouxMaux said. It will keep her mood on the better side, and not feeling sad.

For the past at least \~10 years...the consensus among the dementia education/research groups...is to go along with what a dementia person is saying (even if it's completely outrageous) as long as it's not a danger to them or others. They say there is chickens in the room, there are chickens in the room. If they are paranoid there is someone there who should not be...don't argue with them (they will just get agitated), but find some way to deal with, or get rid of, the imaginary person...shoo them out, tell them you found them already and the cops took them, etc. The ONLY thing I do not go with when my father is believing it...is that he can still walk. I do not want him to think he can, him try, and then get hurt.

But if she does not know any better, and her thinking she will not end up like the ones who are bad off is a way of making her feel emotionally better...no need to tell her. And again, as the other person pointed out...when she gets that bad, she won't know she's that bad.
