My grandfather, who my entire family relied on to be the one in charge, has dementia and right now my family is having issues with difference of opinions on what is best for him
I am an occupational therapy practitioner and work in a nursing home. Many patients I encounter have a form of dementia. Me and the rest of the rehab team work with social services in gathering information on how independently a person can live. 
My father is starting to show early signs of dementia. He has failed his dementia tests at the neurologists, and has shown evidence of plaque in his brain. He has memory problems, and poor impulse control. I am subscribed here for the occasional updates on studies.
Lost my mother in 2010 to a form of Frontal-Temporal-Lobe Degenerative Dementia (non-alzheimer's). So I've got a very personal connection to the topic. I also have an MS in Epidemiology and work as a healthcare data analyst so I have some academic/professional interest as well.
I am a carer working at a nursing home that specializes in Dementia care. My family do not understand why i enjoy working in dementia care because of challenging behaviour I have to deal with but I love it. My dementia residents are the reason I think I have the greatest job in the world, I can think of nothing more rewarding than helping these wonderful people feel happy and comfortable.   
My father has Alzheimers.
Undergrad hoping to become a speech therapist.
my grandma is dying from it, coupled with cancer and we think she only has a month left. and my foster father who i am named after passed away a few years ago from it. Its been really hard... no one knows what I have gone through at 18 years of age losing two of my biggest inspirations in life. The hardest is when the don't remember your name....
My mom was diagnosed a few of years ago with FTD, though now it's looking more like early-onset Alzheimer's. I moved back home two years ago to help take care of her.
My grandmother has mild cognitive impairment and had a very funny looking CT scan. It's been getting worse and is coupled with a long-term disability and a variety of other health problems. I live with her. So yeah...
That is beautiful.  I wish there were more people like you working with dementia patients.  It truly takes a social person.  My father has dementia.
