Sorry I don’t have the answers but I don’t think your mom should drive . My mom a year before we knew she dementia was in a car accident - probably due to the dementia and lack of judgment
The "early" and "mild" descriptors are aggravating as hell when we're already alarmed at the drastic changes in our loved one's cognitive and physical abilities.   It seems that the "moderate" descriptor doesn't apply until the sufferer can basically do very little for themselves (meal prep, bathing, dressing, household tasks) but can still make a little conversation and use a fork.   In other words,  I feel your pain.

And, yes, they can still charm their way through short "tests" like phone calls or even an in-office visit where the provider does most of the talking, but doing so with cognitive tests administered by a gerontologist, neurocog psych, etc is another story.  Those tests have a little wiggle room, but not much -- either she can accurately identify the giraffe and draw a clock, or not.   

Keeping a list of your concerns and observations is critical to ensuring they see the full picture.  Since speaking candidly to her physician in her presence will cause fireworks, email or call him/her with your questions/observations to him/her ahead of the appointment.  Believe me that you are not alone in doing this -- even if the loved one wasn't abusive and/or doesn't have an explosive temper -- very few adult children feel comfortable early in the process to be candid.  Later on, as your Mom's abilities to continue to decline, your comfort level in frank discussion in front of her will likely increase.

As far as her driving, check with your state's department of transportation.  Some states offer the option to "report" a driver with cognitive issues.  The DOT then uses the report as a reason to give them a road driving re-test.

Has your mother completed Power of Attorney documents naming someone she trusts to manage her financial and healthcare business?
Judging by these examples, she should *not* be driving! If she can't remember how to make a phone call, she might not remember which is the gas pedal and which is the brakes very soon. Wobbling and weaving on the road can cause her to get pulled over, and that could be *disastrous*, especially if she gets aggressive at the drop of a hat. Finally, if she were to hit another person's car, they might not be so kind as your neighbor was. It's extremely risky and endangers not only her, but other people. Do whatever you can to stop her from driving.
My mom was diagnosed with early vascular dementia a couple years ago. It didn't take long for my sister and I to throw that "early" part out! Like your mom, mine can turn it on. It took weeks to get anyone else to see it but we soon took her keys away and now, just a couple years later she is sure her best friend died. Every. Single. Day! And she gets so angry compared to who she used to be. Don't worry about the early term, you're there and you should be the one saying how far along this is.
Did the neuropsychologist interview you or someone else other than your mom? For a diagnosis of dementia (so greater than mild cognitive impairment) you need to prove the person has functional impairment (can’t do finances or drive or something like that). Sometimes if a patient or family denies any functional impairment because of poor insight (like it sounds like your mom has) the neuropsychologist would be forced to diagnose MCI instead of dementia. From your description, it sounds like your mom has mild to moderate dementia. I know other comments mentioned a timeline/prognosis, but there is no clear prognosis, it’s different for every patient based on their risk factors and contributing causes.
About the driving. Do consider what will happen if God forbid she would kill someone in a car accident right? So in order to keep her from being angry with you about taking her keys which is very confrontational truthfully, you can just disconnect the battery cable under the hood. That way the car won't start and she can't go anywhere. You can tell her that you will take it to the shop to get it fixed and then just never bring it back until she progresses enough to not care. Another thing you could do is put a note on top of the battery under the hood so that if she calls a repair person on her own oh, they will see the note telling them she has dementia and must not drive and for them to tell her it can't be fixed at the moment. Some sort of thing like that will be your best bet to keep her fairly calm about it and to make sure she's not angry with you and fighting about the keys. It doesn't have to be the battery even. You could flatten the tires every night or swap out the key is for different keys that don't work for her car or tell her there's our been a recall and it has to go to the shop oh, there's plenty of ways to do it without taking the keys LOL
I am sorry to say this but vascular dementia advances pretty quickly. It may be in the beginning stage but it is a serious and severe condition. The maximum life expectancy after diagnosis is 5 years. It doesn't sound like the doctors have it wrong, they just perhaps didn't effectively communicate what to expect.

I'm sorry about your mom. My grandma died of vascular dementia/brain atrophy in June, just 2 years after diagnosis. She showed all of the symptoms your mom is showing in the beginning and a year and a half later, she was mostly bedridden and wouldn't eat or use the toilet.
Thanksgiving dad went to VA center with vascular diagnosis. He could walk with walker. Went to see him Sunday and he is bedfast, needs fed minced food. He has had Covid and reoccurring pneumonia. 

Sad disease.
There are different ways dementia can be classified, early moderate and severe are the common ones. Early stage doesn’t necessarily mean they have just mild symptoms, especially with vascular which can affect all areas of the brain. Depending on the ‘definition’ the doctor / neuropsych chose, it still might technically fit.
For example in some classifications, severe dementia is when people can no longer walk or swallow, but someone might have symptoms we would consider severe like constantly wandering and aggression and not able to communicate but based on that classification they are still ‘moderate’. 
I’m sorry you are going through this and I’m not sure what support services are available in your area. Is there a dementia specific organisation in your area? Where I’m from there is a national dementia hotline you can call for advice and guidance, and they have great online resources too
If your mother still recognizes you than she's definitely not in the late stages. Mother has this for around 7 years, this year has become the worst as far as decline goes.  She's in a nursing home with 24/7 care.
Damn - I’m looking for insights here - I’m in a VERY similar situation .. 3 years now but I moved in and do all the driving / finances. The driving is a no go (she was having blackouts), but the doctor were still allowing her to drive (still with the MCI). No new diagnosis but confusion has gotten substantially worse and life memories are scrambled as hell (in addition to all you mention). 

She does drive, but only when I am in the car
My stepfather was pulling up to a key shop in a strip mall. He hit the gas pedal instead of the brake, and drove his Lexus right into the shop. Only the very large and sturdy front desk stopped him from continuing into the back portion of the shop. The owners were nice and he (without insurance involved) paid for everything to be redone. But Mother had his keys taken away at that point. Step dad was very very lucky to have not smashed anyone who might have been at the counter as a customer.
I'm sorry about your mother. My mom has VD and ALZ. It's just awful. 

I don't worry too much about the "Scale" for where she is - it seems pretty general, and she can be a "3" in one thing and a "7" in another. It really sounds like your mother has far more than mild imparment. One thing though.. the driving. You've got some huge red flags waving:

* When she drives w both hands on the wheel she wobbles and weaves
* She cannot drive to any place she does not already know
* Backing out from the driveway, she hit a parked car (owner didn’t   
contact insurance, he said it was an old car & didn’t matter)

For her safety and the safety of others on the road, she needs to stop driving *immediately*. It's a hard thing for them to lose, but better than than kill someone or injure them badly. Plus any sort of liability that would arise from her having an accident - especially now that she's got a diagnosis. I'd enlist the help of your doctor's office. 

I contact my mom's doctor without her knowledge - even if you don't have the legal status to have them share her medical information, you can *share* what's going on with them. I send messages via the patient portal before every visit and if anything happens that I feel they should know about. It's very helpful and they're actually grateful so they can prepare for her visits.
This was exactly my mom and situation to the T. I knew it was much worse than mild. That was Jan 2020. She’s progressing w the disease. At this point she remembers most people but not always. She lived wirg me and now my sister. It’s the worst
Also it’s HARD but you must stop her from driving.
I tried like heck to take away my dads car keys … he always found a way to drive … ended up getting in a bad car accident that almost killed him and seriously injured the other driver … don’t hesitate to get her out of the drivers seat .. we fought, just not hard enough
Thank you so much; this is all very helpful info. I will certainly look into my state’s DOT to see if I can get her road-driving re-tested. And fortunately, she has an up-to-date will that will grant me POA if/when she becomes incapacitated. I just don’t know who makes that call re: her incapacitation—I’m guessing a doctor?) She is still currently managing her finances (but I keep a close eye) and I am her Health Care Proxy so I am permitted to communicate w her doctors on her behalf.
Yep I’m going to contact the DOT and her doctor. FWIW she only gets aggressive with me. She stays cute and charming w everyone else (see also NPD, I am truly blessed /s)
I’m so sorry about your mom. 💗
Thank you for your validation; it means a lot.
The neuropsychologist met with me and my mother for a half hour, but due to my mother’s tendency towards raging at me and her denial of any shortcomings, I was limited in what I could say during that brief meeting. (I did slip the psychologist a sheet of paper that outlined some of my mom’s most troubling behavior: biting me and bringing the garage door down on my car in 2021, losing $3K in a phishing scam). Then I was asked to leave while my mother completed several hours worth of testing. In the follow-up meeting when the neuropsychologist gave her diagnosis, she said that my mother had both “mild cognitive impairment” and was showing signs of the “early stages of vascular dementia”. The kicker is, the first appt was in office, and masks were worn. Follow-up was done via Zoom, so no masks. At the end of the follow-up, my mother said to the neuropsychologist “Are you the same person that had me do all those math tests?” Meaning, my mom could not recognize the psychologist from two weeks prior, despite the fact that I prepped my mom for the appt, kept on addressing the psychologist by her name, etc.
Thank you, I am and have been worried sick about her driving and hurting or killing someone. I take her to all her appts but she still manages to get out and go down the street to the deli. Your advice is solid, I have definitely considered deactivating the car in some way.
[FUCK]
Thank you for laying it out like that for me. That’s such a helpful yet devastating explanation; I’m so sorry your family all had to suffer like that. I really need to go somewhere and cry now
I did not know that about vascular dementia, which is what my mom has. I guess that explains the rapid changes we see.
I’m so sorry. I wish there was more I could say to offer comfort.
I’m so sorry that you are in a similar position and can relate, and then there aren’t clear answers. This sub has been a thousand times more helpful than any of her doctors, so keep reaching out here. 💗
Thank god no one was hurt, and good job to your mother for taking the keys away. 
I just called my state’s DMV to explore options for having my mother re-tested for her driver’s license and explained my concerns. (Her license is not up for renewal until 2026; FML). They said there was nothing they could do w/o a doctor’s note. I already have had contact my mom’s neurologist, and we have an appt for 4/28. I explained my concerns to them and they told me to “write it down and give it to the receptionist” upon arrival for the appt. I asked if I could mail something sooner, they said it would be pointless bc the doctor would probably not see it. Trying to maintain my sanity here. 
And to everyone who has or will comment “disconnect her battery etc”, did you grow up being beaten and emotionally abused by your parent? Do you understand what Narcissistic rage is like? I have to live under the same roof as her (for the time being) and I am trying to protect her well-being as well as my own. Yeah I could disconnect her car battery and leave a note under the hood explaining the situation to a mechanic, but in the interim, I would be the target of all of her frustration, rage, and anger. As I have been most of my life. And I can’t take much more. Thank you for understanding.
I contacted my mother’s primary (I am her health care proxy)  when she became aggressive w me last June 2021 (bit me, brought the garage door down on my car) and the primary did NOTHING. I will follow your advice and reach out via patient portal as well as sending a letter outlining my concerns; unfortunately bc my mother is a narcissist she has the ability to “charm” outsiders and villainize others (mostly me). Thank you for your recommendation.
The POA will indicate the circumstances in which it is activated.  In my Mom's case, it was when she became incompetent to manage her financial and health interests.  It required a written diagnosis from a physician along with his/her statement  that she was unable to manage her own care.   Once you have that diagnosis/statement (along with the POA), many doors will open for you: healthcare providers will seek your input into your Mom's care, you can close and open financial accounts in order to manage her finances, and so on.
I can tell that your mother is already far away from what she used to be. However, the stages cover the disease from the onset to the end. If she still capable of driving, and managing her finances, that's a long way removed from no longer understanding basic hygiene and how chairs work. 

Do try and get her license revoked, as it does sound like she should not be driving. I'm sorry you are going through this.
You need to contact her auto insurance company. I contacted ours bc my husband has Lewy Body Dementia and they don’t cover anyone with a dementia diagnosis. Very few do. If she has any assets at all, like a house, or savings, that will all be lost quickly if she causes an accident. 

It would be much easier for me if my husband could drive and he didn’t give it up easily. 

“Show timing” is common and I think half of my husband’s family is convinced I’m making it all up. It’s exhausting for him to act like he has it together and he’s reaching the stage where he really can’t.
You are welcome, I'm sorry that it isn't good news. Sending mental hugs.
The poster catsporvida is wrong. Vascular dementia does not have a "maximum" life expectancy of 5 years. My mom has VD and she isn't close to the end, and she has had it longer than 5 years. 

My mom moved to managed care a couple months ago. She was assessed and lives in the "independent" section, with her dementia. So not near the end of the road here by any means. I really hate when people post misinformation that sends someone into a panic. 

Every case of dementia is different. Your mother will have her own journey and timeline. Focus on your mother's state of mind, and what she needs, like I said, every journey and duration is different. 

Good luck.
Vascular dementia is not a neurodegenerative disease like Alzheimer's and does not progress in such a way.  It is not typically quickly progressing unless there are no changes to diet and lifestyle.  Usually once a family takes control of diet, you can mitigate stroke factors considerably.

However, that being said...most people do not really have vascular dementia and have been misdiagnosed.  The vast majority of cases are actually Alzheimer's disease with extra vascular contributions typically phrased mixed dementia.  This typically progresses at the same rate as Alzheimer's disease which is fairly slow (as far as neurodegenerative diseases go) unless acquired at an earlier age.

Vascular dementia on an MRI will typically show various infarcts and what is phrased as severe microvascular white matter ischemic change which essentially means tiny vessels that have died off.  It does not typically show the atrophy patterns that are seen in Alzheimer's disease.  Working in a memory clinic, almost every single "vascular dementia" patient that has come to us for care or second opinion turns out to be mixed dementia with Alzheimer's disease. It is also worth noting that the atrophy patterns in Alzheimer's disease are not commonly commented on in MRI reports.  At most it will be written as "involutional changes". 

Truly vascular dementia tends to occur from strokes and has a stepward decline if people continue to have more strokes.  However, if you only have one stroke and then lifestyle changes and diet change results in no more strokes there should be minimal change in cognition.
Thank you so much and I hope you get the answers you need to keep everyone safe. 

Yes, I agree 100% about this community being so helpful … 

The doctors have been complete shite, basically dropped a nice sounding diagnosis (compared to Alzheimer’s I suppose), and then just bailed out and no real contact or follow ups. We switched healthcare systems now, but still …

Reading up on what was said here about vascular dementia definitely led to a lot of crying yesterday… but it was ultimately more helpful than the official advice we have received so far 

Sending love and good thoughts your way
I have no words for you. Nuthin'.....just hugs, and an open ear and eyes to listen and understand when you need to unload. Truly.
I hope it works. I changed my parent's primary care physician because he was zero help even with multiple neurologists' diagnoses. Although the last time she saw that guy (after he refused to even admit there was a problem - he put up his hands and told me that it was a "family issue" and that he wanted no part of it) she got super angry when he came out to talk to my father and I because...guess what....she was making no sense. She followed him out to the waiting room and caused a scene and took a swing at him. I almost wish she had connected. ;)
Thank you so much fir your helpful and clarifying response. I really appreciate it.
Thank you so much. I contacted the DMV in my state today and explained the situation. I point-blank explained that I worried she was a danger to herself and others. They said there was nothing they could do unless a doctor submitted documents to indicate her incapacitation. So now I have to wait until her neurologist appt (4/28) and hope that the carefully detailed note I covertly slip to him prior to the appt is enough to convince him to do something. (My mother has Narcissistic Personality Disorder, was abusive to me throughout my childhood and has begun again since I’ve moved in with her…she will not admit to any shortcomings or willingly accept help for her cognitive deficiencies, and can turn on her narcissistic charm for short periods of time to effectively delude her target audience.
I hadn’t thought of contacting her auto insurance company, that’s a good idea (in addition to the DOT and her doctors). In terms of assets, she has a good amount, and I am the only beneficiary. All of the suggestions in this sub have also got me wondering how I can get POA granted to me (I believe first she has to be declared unfit?) and if/how I can transfer her assets into my name (she was victim of a phishing scam three years ago that cost her $3K and last spring she intentionally brought the garage door down on my car, and it cost her $5K to replace the garage door). This was before she had a diagnosis but clearly her poor health/judgment  was already causing her to bleed money.
Thank you 💗💗💗
Thank you. And I’m so sorry to hear about your mother.
Thanks for your answer. My mother had an MRI that showed changes to the white matter which led the neuropsychologist to a vascular dementia diagnosis. My mother refuses to make any lifestyle changes. She will not exercise. She will not change her diet to include healthy food. She sits in her chair from morning to night watching tv. When night falls, she sits in the dark. She doesn’t even turn the lights on. She refused her neurologist’s suggestion of starting on Lexapro and called him an asshole. I have made many, many, many attempts to help her in every way possible  and I am met with abuse. She refuses to acknowledge that she has any memory issues. I have given up trying to intervene on her behalf because it was becoming dangerous for my own well-being. I now only reach out and communicate to her doctors to give them insight into what’s going on. Some doctors are responsive and some are not.
Thank you so much for your kind and supportive comment; it means a ton. 💗💗
You are wonderful. Thank you from the bottom of my heart. 💗
Oh man that sounds terrible! I’m so sorry you had to endure that. Unfortunately I’ve had more experiences of doctors not listening than those who do — to a myriad of concerns, be they dementia, chronic pain, etc. I wish there were a way to hold these physicians accountable for their dismissiveness, as it causes long drawn-out suffering and a worsening of symptoms. I also wish your mom had actually been able to punch that fucker out. Hugs to you. 💗
In that case I'd also warn against becoming her primary caregiver. It's unlikely her behaviour towards you will improve, and you deserve to be able to hold on to your own boundaries. It can be very, very difficult, but please distinguish between caregiver and family member. 

You don't owe her. Not even now that she is sick. Good luck, we are here to support you!
You can probably get her to voluntarily give you Durable POA effective immediately as opposed to upon her incapacitation. I was able to do this when my husband was moderately impaired. 

The bar for a POA is set higher than for a will. Basically, in the US, she just has to generally understand what assets she has and who will be the beneficiary. Obviously, this should be done ASAP.

ETA: my husband’s finances were a mess and he was happy to have me handle them. Your mother may not feel the same. Spend some time thinking about how best to approach it with her.
Vascular Dementia is an umbrella term, as there are different reasons causing it. My husband has the classic step like progression, where he'll remain pretty steady for a while then suddenly progress. He was diagnosed 8 years ago and is currently in the moderate stage.
 Thanks. Best of luck to you! Take care of yourself while this is going on - it's a rough road.
Thank you!
Thank you, I appreciate that advice. I’ve approached my mom a few times about helping her w managing finances and she defiantly insists she’s got it. (Not sure if you know much about narcissistic personality disorder but she has it, and I grew up being abused by her. This just makes the current situation all the more difficult. She will not budge on letting go of anything she currently controls, no matter how much I may try to reason with her. That’s why I feel like my only option in this scenario is having her declared incapacitated.)
I’m really sorry for that. My dad was a jerk. He didn’t have dementia but I helped care for him the last year of his life and it was very hard.
Thank you. And I’m so sorry to hear about your dad.
