[deleted]
Just turned 62 and seeing my mother head down the road of increasing decrepitude from refusing to get any exercise is what has kept me active over the last 20 or so years. My friends who have stayed active into their late 60s/early 70s are much, much healthier - one friend's dad just hit 92 and he is still actively hiking the San Gabriels here in Southern California. You lose muscle tone so fast when you stop moving around, and it's much harder at 60 than it was at 25 to build it back. 

(Not entirely sure what the smell thing is but I am hoping to push that back too!)
In spite of being out of breath, your mom is willing to walk with you. Take all the opportunities you have to get her out and walk. If she has a girlfriend or two, invite them along for a fun (yet not too rigorous) hike -- they might all find that they enjoy getting out together and repeat on their own.

Regarding the "old people" smell, she may not be showering/bathing often enough but this could also be because female hormones fluctuations are legitimately a misery unto themselves with menopause and she might just need to switch things up with the soap/cleanser she's using -- perhaps something with a bit of tea tree oil in it or an odor-blocking wash (if you're in the US, [this one is a really great body wash](https://www.walmart.com/ip/Vagisil-Feminine-Wash-12-oz-Pack-of-2/44722355) with a really nice, subtle scent although the brand name is super off-putting, so I recommend decanting it into a pretty bottle and passing it off as a fancy boutique product).

And finally, with their diet, are you around to help with meal prep? My dad makes poor choices because he never learned about good ones. And poor ones are generally the easier options (just open the bag of chips). When I shop for him, I can suggest (or just fill the cart with) better selections and, because my dad will willingly eat what is available, if I have the opportunity, I can prep a bunch of good choices that only require thawing and heating. Taking cooking classes together (or watching them online!) might also help foster an interest in nutrition or just expand their repertoire of recipies so that it includes more healthful ones. If you're a cook, a fun gift of a new cooking item (like a cast iron pan, a spiralizer, or an air fryer) show them how to use might be fun and appreciated, too. It seems like a lot of times, trying new things or ways of doing things for our older parents is a mental barrier for them that needs some coaxing to change.
See if there is a local senior center. The one near my parents offers a variety of exercise classes, movies, book club, speakers, and field trips. I took my parents and got them signed up. Getting them to go is another challenge.
Habits don’t necessarily last a whole lifetime, as much as it makes sense that it has been going for a while
