So sorry you're in this position. Just for background sake, what is the objection to you helping with hygiene? And what authority does the aunt wield in the decision-making process? Does she have power of attorney? Own the home? Pay rent to live there? Without doxing yourself can you give us approximate ages of interested parties?
Perhaps you could talk to your Grandma about getting a paid caregiver in to help with bath times.  It's possible that he'd be less combative with a caregiver who is the same gender as he and unrelated.  Having his daughter bathe him could be making him feel ashamed.  That said, if he's violent and combative he could be a risk to your aunt and grandma.  It's hard to believe that they'd actually hurt anyone but it happens more often than you'd think.
Its not really cruel, honestly. My mom made it clear she never wanted to live in the care home she worked at, but after she had her stroke, we had no other options. We felt bad about it, but we had to. 

I can understand both sides honestly. I really have no advice, i just know that as a nurse's aide wirking a dementia ward, i jnew part of my job was taking abuse from combative residents. It sucks, but it's part of the job, and i got (under)paid for it. Your family gets that abuse without getting paid? I can see why a care home might have to be an option
To piggy back off of this,    
           
How old are OP and you and have you done his care before? 
They may be keeping you away because they don't want you to get hurt. He may also be calm and happy around you because he doesn't associate you with any of the things that stress him out.
it’s okay thank you for your reply! grandpa is 80 grandma is 78 and i’m 20, aunt and grandma both have medical power of attorney if i remember correctly and the opposition to me helping with his hygiene is that they don’t really want me to see him naked but i’ve accidentally walked in on them cleaning him a few times so it’s past that possibility also my grandmother owns the home & my aunt lives for free
we have a lady who comes in the morning to shower him and like 90% of the time he’s good with her but right now he has a UTI so he’s been more angry but hasn’t hit her or anything but i definitely agree with you i never thought to ask specifically for a male nurse, they all hit and fight each other it gets really bad i get their side i wouldn’t want him to hit me either but hitting back isn’t a good strategy and i think he’s become overly defensive now
i really can’t control whether they put him away or not i just fear that because of his behavior a nurse, aide, tech, etc… may harm him & maybe that’s just me overthinking but on the same note, he 99% of the time won’t eat something not cooked by his wife (grandma) unless it’s like something he recognizes like McDonalds so i also fear that if he sees food he knows his wife didn’t make and he is difficult about eating that they’ll let him starve. idk i just really really love him, and i hate the thought of him not living with me honestly

EDIT: removed an unneeded sentence
i’m 20 & not entirely, they’ve left me home alone with him a few times and i had no other choice but to take him to use the bathroom but grandma and aunt don’t know that. the few times i took him he didn’t say a word just did his business and moved on, i figured maybe it stresses him out to have people touching him so i don’t blame him but at the same time he’s less combative when i touch him versus when somebody else does, maybe they are indeed afraid he’ll get angry with me or hurt me but he’s done that before and i guess i understand why you know
No, hitting him back will only make it worse.  It really does sound like your grandpa will be safer in the hands of professionals.
The chances a worker harms his is rare
i know but unfortunately nobody listens to me :( maybe he will be but i also feel selfish for this but i don’t want him away from home and i know it may not be a good environment for him here but me and him are super close and even if he goes to the hospital for a few days i miss him dearly so idk how i would cope with that
i know i’m just an overthinker and worry a lot
