Do they like to bird watch? We take a couple of pine cones from the yard, tie them together at the top, put peanut butter on them then roll them in bird seed. Then we hang the finished product in front of the window and watch! The birds take a few to find it so you could do one to start the process, then when you and your loved one do one together there will be instant success 🐦🐣
Painting on clay or wooden figurines, Legos,something sensory like playdough maybe,listen to music,fidget toys or blankets,string beads,blow bubbles,play catch with a soft ball,sort socks or other items,look at photographs or magazine's. Depending on where their at with dementia or what stage their at, its hard to keep a loved one busy my uncle likes arranging fake flowers lol! Good luck OP☺ Also he has a flip sequin stuffed dog that he loves to pet relentlessly.
I use coloring books with coloring pencils for my mom and my dad loves puzzles and word searches.  I usually get him 300-500 piece ones for the puzzles. Anything with more than 500 gets too intense for him.  Hope this helps!
I give my mom coloring books, too.  I think that it depends on your relative's preference and the advancement of their dementia on what works best for them to color with.  

My mom loves gel pens with glitter, but I think that she will need to switch to markers soon.  I would go with something like the washable Crayola Supertips.
Thank you. I just bought some more coloring books off of Amazon. 

And I bought a fidget pillow. Thanks for your advice. It has fasteners, zippers, hooks and such.
Thank you, yes I bought coloring books. I tried puzzles. Started easy one. 16 pieces. But my relative is not interested in it. Too lazy to even try. He would just point at the pieces and refuse to move it himself. Will try word puzzles. Thanks
Yes. I'm debating on markers or pens. 
I will look into crayola supertips like you've mentioned

I think pens would be to narrow and would be tedious coloring. Thanks for the info ;)
Thats awesome you're welcome!☺
I also just found a bunch of pictures stashed away in my parents closet so I purchased an album and made a game out of organizing the pictures into the album.  Really worked well with my mom.  Helps bring some memories back as well.  Good luck!  Fuck dementia.
