I totally understand. I feel like my life is on constant hold because of my mom and her dementia.
I’m so sorry you are going through this.  I am being very honest and blunt but unfortunately your grief, anxiety, and stress won’t pass until your dad does.  Then, it will be sadness but relief. They will no longer be suffering.   What helped me in an odd way is that as the executor of her estate, I was still super busy for months after mom’s death.  But a productive busy, if you will. I wish you all the best and I hope you have friends or family you can talk to.  And I wish I had known about his forum before my mom died - it would have been so helpful to me.  Now, I hope I can help others.
I feel you. I transferred to work with my dad, but had to spend a year getting him diagnosed and retired. Now, I'm just kind of blah about the job because that place meant so much to him. Even though I've become friendly with some colleagues, I've been ready to move on for a few months. Now that my dad has sort of leveled off, I'm able to focus on my life more. I know he was always proud of me and wouldn't want me stop living on his account. But there were a few weeks when I just wasn't motivated to do anything beyond basic function. Thankfully, I have my family to keep me going. Just hold tight those around you. Take care.
Oh yeah, I have some much frustration with my mom’s illness, it’s hard not to feel mad ALL THE TIME, because what do I DO with the anger? Or yeah…just go numb with depression. I struggle with feeling like a bad: daughter, mom, spouse AND employee. It sucks. No one really understands either.
I took a semester off of college to get my dad moved near us. Now it's a year off, because he's in the hospital. I'm in regular therapy, and my therapist insisted on shortening the time between sessions bc of my depression. My house looks like shit. Family dinners have turned into "what haven't I ordered from door dash recently?" Idgaf about my appearance. Let laundry pile up for weeks until I had no clothes to wear (I have kids, too, so the guilt, even though they weren't wearing dirty clothes). No support from my partner. Sleep is all fucked up. Mental, physical, emotional exhaustion is overwhelming. Guilt about telling my dad he needed to quit drinking, because it was ruining our relationship, which landed him in the hospital.

I know there's more that you're struggling with that you're not sharing. I just want you to know that you are not alone. You're still killing it. There are days when I just want to lie in bed all day. And I don't even have a job right now! You're my inspiration. I cannot imagine my position, with the stress of a job alongside it. 

I wish the best for you.
I did well at work while mom was alive. Now that she has died, I feel the way you describe. Whether it's the trauma of being a care taker, Covid, the state of the world, or what, I'm having a hard time caring right now.
You are not alone.  My wife and I are going through this in relation to her mom's decline with late-stage Alzheimer's.  I do believe, do hope it will pass.
I was just telling my therapist this today.  My work is starting to suffer because I'm overwhelmed and exhausted.  You're not alone, OP.  

I hope you start feeling like yourself again, and perhaps you would benefit from therapy too?
Yup. I don't even have caretaking responsibility the vast majority of the time, but it's still taking a toll. My mom is only 64, and I've been watching her decline for about 8 years, worrying about her future, wondering how she'll manage when my dad passes (he's several years older and not in great health). And of course I worry that my brain will go the same route hers is going. It's a lot to carry on a daily basis.
Can relate. I’m convinced years of caregiver stress has made me slower and less sharp. I wonder how much this might improve some day and how much is permanent. Feeling like I’m not doing great at work causes more stress so it’s just a big frustrating and exhausting anxiety sandwich. Good luck to you.
Same! I feel ya!
I was stoned out of my tree through most of my mom's illness. I couldn't cope
It's a horrible feeling, knowing you can't live your life but also loving your mom and wanting her to be looked after, but then also wishing it was just over so you can be yourself again.

I learned that my company will be flying our team to NYC in May and everyone is so excited.  But not me. I can't go because no one can look after my mom.

It's just a horrible situation all-around.
Your reply hits me hard. My dad has good days and terrible days. Today was terrific! Completely lucid and seems like the dad I thought that I had lost! 

But just yesterday, I admitted to my partner that part of me hopes that he dies. He wouldn't want to live the rest of his life like he was for the past month. Even today, he confided that he knew he was mean over the past few weeks and felt awful. 

I mean, he's not wrong. The hospital staff has been heroically patient. Everyone has seen his balls more times than any of his past partners. 

He's going to get bad again, I fear. A huge part of me is filling up like a balloon for hope that he's back to normal and will never change. But I thought that a week ago, when he was doing better and then it all fucked up over the last four days. My previous post highlights the suspected cause, but it's probably wishful thinking. 

How would you want your loved ones to react in this situation?
Have you contacted your local Alzheimer’s group? They might be a good resource for you. 

My experience with my mom was this:

At first she’d have good days and bad days, the bad being when she would get really combative with staff. She often spoke of wanting to commit suicide because she knew something was deeply wrong.  She eventually had too many bad days and she had to be medicated.  Fortunately the suicide talks stopped. Then her legs started giving out on her and she had to start using a walker, then a wheelchair.  But she kept thinking she could walk, and then fall.  Lots of falls. Her mental capacity would slip and then she’d plateau for a couple months. Rinse, repeat.  The last year of her life she no longer knew me (18 months of lockdown and only window visits didn’t help).  But every patient is different.  Several in her memory care were always happy, and completely mobile. They made ME happy because they were so friendly and loving. You will continue to have happy moments. I did with my mom even at the end. She didn’t know who I was but sometimes smiled at me when I walked in the door because she was glad to have a visitor.  Music made her happy. 

Hang in there and keep talking to others to vent, learn, and commiserate.

Edited to add: watch for UTI’s - they can throw seniors off the rails (even non dementia folks) and it can take a while for them to return to their baseline.
I haven't contacted anyone yet. I'm reading through a book geared towards non-Alzheimer's causes of dementia. He has nosedived within the last three months. Even before he quit drinking. His mother/my grandmother suffered from Alzheimer's so I felt prepared, but not this sudden crashing.


When he was admitted, they discovered he had a kidney infection. It explained his incontinence and severe back pain.


I so appreciate the rest of your comment. The specialist doctors/hospitalists/nursing staff/case managers, etc have been so terrific (with a few exceptions that make me wish the purge was real). They have celebrated all of his good days, and today he seems back to normal, and everyone wanted to check on him. He's a sweet man. He showed that side to so many of the staff, who also witnessed his regressions. 


The patience is hard. Trying to navigate his care is hard. I try to be as sweet as pie to the staff, when I question and redirect his medications and care. The last four days were the worst. I felt like no one cared. They weren't changing the medication orders, reviewing the charts, etc. I couldn't even go in on Saturday after seeing him Friday and learning that he'd been sedated, even though that makes him worse. I don't know if I feel an obligation or if it's out of love for him, but I'll keep it up. It's a thing. I'm sure you know. At this point, I'm just venting. But I truly appreciate your comment ❤️


Edited bc paragraph breaks
