Your friend meant well but books like that aren’t helpful are they? It’s not like there’s some secret cure for dementia hidden from all the doctors.  

I wish there was a cure. Dementia sucks.  But false hope being peddled for money is not nice.

If you get the book, please share some of what it contains.  I’m curious.

One of my brother’s friends is a pharmaceutical rep and he called me up saying our mom needs a LOT of turmeric and to take the dementia medication and implied it would stop the disease in its tracks.  No, it doesn’t.  And turmeric in high doses like that damages the liver.  

People mean well but sheesh, sometimes it’s draining.
The author’s wiki page is fascinating. Not good or aspirational, but fascinating: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vernon_Coleman. What a nut job and all around horrible person.
[deleted]
The author's Wikipedia entry alone should be enough to tell your friend to stick it up his arse 

"Vernon Coleman is an English conspiracy theorist,\[1\]\[2\]\[3\] anti-vaccination activist,\[4\]\[5\] AIDS denialist,\[6\]\[7\] blogger and novelist who writes on topics related to human health, politics and animal issues.  
  
Coleman's medical claims have been widely discredited and described as pseudoscientific. He was formerly a newspaper columnist and general practitioner (GP)."
I used to really like him... but he turned out to be a complete twat. I understand he is banned from several TV stations for demonstrating threatening behaviour. Says it all really...
Proceed with caution, I believe he also thinks AIDS and covid are hoaxes. I’d bin the book and stay away from future medical diagnosis discussion with this friend.  I’m sure they mean well, but this isn’t the way.
Nope. It is not curable. I study this for a living and care for my parents, who both live with dementia. Symptoms may be somewhat manageable with medications, but this is a terminal disease. People die from complications of dementia. I’m sorry your friend gave you a book with misinformation.
I don't know about the book, but what i know about the man is reason enough not to trust the book.   Coleman denies that AIDS exists.  He's COVID conspiracy nut.  He said that autism isn't real, children are just brats and should be thrown into a vat of raw sewage to teach them some manners. 

Speaking as the parent of a child with autism and also as the child of a parent with dementia -  I have zero interest in what this asshole has to say
There are ways to prevent and slow. No cure. Prevention - very high quality high dose fish oil, social activity, healthy weight , routine cardio and weight lifting, good sleep hygiene , learn new skills
No merit at all. Not backed by science.
That doc who wrote that is a POS
The only thing I agree with this wacko on is being antivivisection.
It is not. All they have is memozine.
While dementia is not curable or reversible, there are certain things that can improve functionality.  My father showed a big change when moving from our home to a memory care unit where he can be around other people and have more assistance.  Went from basically sleeping all the time to sometimes feeding himself and verbalizing needs.  We know there won't be a "recovery", but some "improvement" is possible.
What's your follow-up on it?
Agreed. My husband spends a ton of time watching YouTube videos of people saying you can cure dementia by buying this supplement or this additive and it just makes me so mad. It gives him hope because he no longer has the logic to grasp that if there was a cure for dementia it wouldn’t be a “ secret” supplement on YouTube. I’ve purchased so many vitamins and supplements and spices just to make him happy because he saw a video and insists it will fix him. Of course none have done a thing and he continues to decline. 
People selling these snake oil cures are taking advantage of desperate people who are vulnerable to scams and their relatives who want so badly to believe this nightmare can somehow be fixed. 
It’s beyond reprehensible.
Yeah, he’s a well meaning guy. He’s also a health nut to the fullest, lots of vitamins and vegan diet, non gmo, so on and so forth. I just have never heard of this book and was a little shocked, expecting something about vitamins or something.
Desktop version of /u/BonnieMSM's link: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vernon_Coleman>

 --- 

 ^([)[^(opt out)](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiMobileLinkBot&message=OptOut&subject=OptOut)^(]) ^(Beep Boop.  Downvote to delete)
Yeah I did no research. My friend just said hey I sent you a book that might help. The title was what got me so split. I thought oh maybe he’s talking about homeopathic stuff that can help, but then why call the whole disease a myth? So figured I’d check to see if it’s even worth looking at before opening it up. I’m just gonna toss it.
Wow, he really decided to cover all the bases when he went wacko.
Yeah. The aids denialist got me. His book should be sat on fire.
Yeah, I agree. The friend means well but I’m not reading anything from this guy.
I apologize if this is rude, but would you mind me messaging you? Your post history makes me want to get and give advice. Ignore/downvote/whatever. It's just that I'd like to connect if possible.
Non-GMO is just a scam, FYI. GMO foods are no less healthy than non-GMO. The only reason we have enough food to feed the billions currently on this planet is through GMO increasing yield, reducing susceptibility to disease, etc. People insisting on non-GMO are the 1% effectively, snobbishly refusing totally fine food due to some misguided, misinformed anti-science bullshit.
Good idea to just toss it - by the sounds of it the author is a tosser anyway, lol.  Sorry you had to suffer this nonsense, as well as I can't see cos they've thankfully deleted but what, some numbskull carrying on at you about hOmeoPaThics?  ffs....   I guess yr book-sending-friend 'means well' but these fanatics & for eg covid conspiracists, are beyond tiresome.  I've been in sort of 'alternative' communities for decades, most of my friends are 'alternative' types - some of them are just whack, so deluded.  Most have never experienced serious health issues, so they're just fairy-bollocking around.  

And I lived in India for more than a decade - if homEopaThics ACTUALLY WORKED, there would not be millions of people suffering horrendous health issues, or dying left right & centre, ffs.  I've experienced people with typhoid get told 'gO tO hoMeoPathiC doCtoR' ffs, the person will die - it's just shocking what some deluded folk will blather on about.  

Like somebody says they have liver cancer, to get told "oH it's aLL coNNecteD, reLeasE yoUr anGeR, eAt vEgaN, tAkE xYz suppLemeNt"  grrrrrrr so disrespectful, borderline abusive.   smh...  Toss the tosser!    lol..
[deleted]
I suggest more research on the reasoning for GMO resistance. Monocrop disease succeptibility and heavy use of pesticides in American food production, not to mention the disappearance of native/varied species and the corporations that control 99% of the patents of these crops is not misguided anti-science.
Why would I need to do more research with regards to homeopathic stuff? That’s what you’re implying right?
None of that is directly related to GMO, though. One can support GMO and oppose overuse of pesticides. In fact, GMO is one of the only ways we *can* reduce reliance on pesticides, by engineering crops to be more resistant to disease and bugs. If someone gives a shit about pesticide poisoning, they should be in the pro-GMO camp, not anti.
[deleted]
Wasn't there a documentary about this? GMOs were less likely to be affected by pests, which meant less pesticides, and therefore "healthier" * and more mature crops? The segment I remember the clearest is about Idaho potato farmers who produced a great crop of... Wait for it... Potatoes used for McDonald's french fries. Bc of the stigma against GMOs, McDonald's cancelled the contract or made them go back to the less reliable crop that yielded less?

* I won't comment on the "healthier" aspect bc I don't know.
And? Why would I need to do more research on that?
Consider the Irish Potato Famine-monoculture at it's finest. When one modified crop that is man-engineered becomes the only species that we have as a particular food, what happens when it becomes weakened or can't be reproduced? My issue with GMOs is that a small number of corporations have complete control over the food supply, often squeezing out local food growers in the name of profits and "science."
   Did you know there are more than 1,000 species of bananas in the world and we have access to one, the Cavendish-thanks to GMO corporatization of our food supply.
Great point!

Seriously, I had to recheck the sub that this was in.

I think it has less to do with Big-corporate-gmos and more with the utilization of the farmers/consumers. Farming is a for profit endeavor, even if it's a private farm. Mendal discovered that genetic manipulation of pea plants resulted in many different results. People have been creating hybrids of plants for centuries. 

I'm not for or against GMOs. Or "regular" vs organic foods. The things I buy are considered amongst a lot of different variables and qualifications, depending on what I'm buying and knowledge of how it was grown.

The potato famine was not about GMOs. It was about uniquely chosen potato crops that affected the country and thousands (if not millions) of lives. With the availability of GMOs, it could be possible to stop a blight/famine in it's progress to ensure there is enough food. It's hypothetical. Could be.

There are examples of people taking part in the results of scientific modifications: hormones in meat, milk, preservatives, the common genetic variant of concern and bananas (as you mention), etc. 

Like I said, idk about GMOs to give you a legitimate response. This isn't even the subreddit for this discussion. The point that I'm trying to make is that genetic manipulation isn't new and doesn't necessarily mean whatever is created is bad. Based on my knowledge of... Basically nothing. Some college, but curious about history. I'm interested in genetics, a course which I took... So I'm basically an expert right?? 

Anyway. I've actually really enjoyed thinking through my response to you. If you would like to continue, I think it might be best handled in a message, so it doesn't take away from the thread.
