My partner's most dramatic shift that led to dementia diagnosis (finally!) was that she took to bed in August 2020, has stayed there ever since,  and has to be pried out with a crowbar. If you hear any solutions let me know.

Biggest problem has been loss of muscle tone. She had a very mild case of Covid earlier this year (we're both triple vaxxed and mask-obsessive, and I was apparently asymptomatic). She lost the ability for about a week to walk, toilet, or even roll over in bed. Likely wouldn't have been an issue if she had any muscle tone in reserve. At one point, had to call police to pick her up off bathroom floor at midnight. She fell, and I couldn't bench press 160 lb of inert mass to even hoist her to a position she could leverage herself upright

Best solution I've found so far is routine: regular, predictable schedule of times she *must* get up and do something. Towel folding busy-work, meals, a scheduled walk outside…

Safety and low stimulation seem to be her main concerns. The bed is safe and warm. The rest of the world is rapidly becoming strange, unfamiliar, hard to navigate, anxiety provoking—thus threatening. Has your mom been evaluated for depression? UTI? Meds evaluated for too much CNS depressant activity (calming meds can do that)? Blood pressure and blood oxygen levels okay? 

Maybe introducing another caregiver would be a good time to introduce a mandatory set of short "out of bed" intervals, because "doctor's orders."
Get her blood iron levels checked. I speak from experience.
All you can really do is try to redirect her. What works with my dad is offering to watch one of his fave movies with him or offering him his tablet to play on as he loves playing solitaire and casino slots lol. Try to find something to distract her for even an hour. Just realize it's not going to always work and in the end she will have good days where she is more compliant and bad days where she isn't. The home care giver can also help with this.
Hmm, yes get an in-home caregiver!  A properly trained care-giver will be accustomed to this sort of issue, & have many tactics to try get around it.    Find a nearby nice cafe they can go out to for a treat, or put outdoor seating furniture if you have outdoor space & if your weather is ok for that.  Or find some local program for day-respite for your mother, or a community centre they can visit.  Our area has a few dementia-specific respite outings, they come pick them up 9:30 - 10:30am in a mini-bus, go to a community centre for (dementia-appropriate) activities & a simple lunch / snacks, & drop them back home around 2 - 3pm, fees covered by home-care services.  

Or, find some activities your mum CAN do, and likes doing.  Put them on a table in loungeroom / diningroom / where-ever.   Start some of the activities WITH her - idk eg mindful colouring book, word-search (crossword puzzles get too difficult of course) , seated-quoits, whatever.  Get a big plastic jar full of mixed old buttons & beads (thrift-store) that she has to sort into different containers.  Sort by size, or by colour, or by whatever. Or a basket of handkerchiefs and handtowels and teatowels to sort through & fold up & put in another basket.  Then you can call her & ask "how's the <insert activity > going mum?  Did you do some of it, thanks for helping, isn't it fun!  

Often I think, they may as well stay in bed because they can't think of anything else and don't have anything else to do.  Find her some things to do & lay them out started already, not packed away so she can't even see them & can't work out what to even do to start.  

good luck!
>Best solution I've found so far is routine: regular, predictable schedule of times she  
>  
>must  
>  
>get up and do something. Towel folding busy-work, meals, a scheduled walk outside…

Thank you for the reply!I can make her stay out of bed only if I stay in her company in the living room, or when we go out to walk and do things like physiotherapy, she even stay excited with these activities, but once I'm not with her she just thinks in her bed... Right now I literally cannot do my studies and search for a job because of this problem, it's very stressful.
Hi, thank you for the reply!
Her iron levels are fine, we checked in December.
She got low D vitamin and Calcium levels, but is taking vitamins since December.
Hi! Actually, I can make her stay out of bed if I'm in her company doing something, but the problem is that when I exit she just want her bed, so I'm not doing my things just to stay with her right now. I think a new in-home caregiver is the best solution to try to solve this, and you encouraged me in this decision. Thank you!
Sigh. Yes, I have one with a Velcro attitude too. As nicely as I would like to phrase it, this becomes a real energy-vampire situation. It sounds like another caregiver may be a really useful option.
