Don't get me started on CHC!

Financial assessments and continuing healthcare are two different things. The assessment is just to look at how much money she has to see if she has to pay for her own care. The vast majority of people do have to pay, Continuing healthcare (CHC) is a specific funding when someone's needs are medical, not just care based. I was advised to apply for CHC for my dad due to his advanced dementia, incontinence, complex medication needs (he's on anti-psychotics and sedatives), skin condition, inability to move independently and blindness.

I'll be entirely honest the process of applying for CHC is an absolute nightmare, it takes months and months and you probably won't get it.

The first step is to have a 'checklist' assessment carried out. My dad had his in September last year That then triggers a full MDT meeting with social services - mine was with 6 people and took 4 hours. You have to go through a range of concerns and the person has to meet the threshold for enough of them to qualify. It turns your loved one into a tick box exercise. My dad met the thresholds but it was still refused straight away.

That was in November. I appealed against the refusal straight away and social services lost it. It's still not been finalised. Despite his severe care needs, there is absolutely no urgency and social services have targets which mean they are under pressure to refuse applications. I feel like they make it as difficult and distressing as possible to apply so you give up, but I'm too bloody minded to quit at this stage!

Alzheimers Society is a really good source of info on this sort of thing: [https://www.alzheimers.org.uk/get-support/help-dementia-care/nhs-continuing-healthcare](https://www.alzheimers.org.uk/get-support/help-dementia-care/nhs-continuing-healthcare)

They also have a forum you can talk to people in the same situation, and ask questions. I've found it really helpful [https://forum.alzheimers.org.uk/](https://forum.alzheimers.org.uk/)
Shouldn't they have carried the CHC before any financial assessment?
No they are two completely different things. pretty much everyone who needs care will have to have a financial assessment (means testing) to see what if anything social services will pay for. CHC is a specific funding for people with significant long term health needs. It's not means tested, and it's incredibly difficult to get
