I wouldn’t get too worried right now. The neuropsychologist is likely more interested in what type of impairment there is, not whether or not the impairment exists. That may seem odd to you now. You are trying to prove the impairment exists, yet they are able to talk to and test your husband in ways that allow them to confirm an impairment exists while also narrowing down what type it is. For instance, someone with Alzheimer’s may answer questions or be able to perform actions/functions in ways that are totally different from someone with Frontotemporal Dementia. Wait to see what the results are and then you can decide if you still need to push for someone to take your concerns about his cognition seriously.
When trying to get my husband diagnosed he was given a 6 hour neuro pysch test.  I was really anticipating a confirmation of the cognitive issues he was having.....NOPE.  We were told he had no cognitive issues.  Fast forward 2 years, a repeat neuro psych test and bingo, dramatic changes in his cognition.  When we spoke to the doc I asked her why he did so well two years ago, she explained high functioning people can initially do quite well on those tests, it's not until they start having significant issues that it will show on the test.  The doc was surprised how much he had changed in two years.  So, keep pushing.  I am on the 4th doctor for my husband, find someone who you feel comfortable with and don't be afraid to keep changing docs until you find one who listens.  Good luck.
You should absolutely be able to give input. At my husband’s doctors appointments, they will ask him and then they will ask me. 

For example, my husband was born in Kentucky but spent 40 years in Virginia, where we met. He now always describes events as happening in Kentucky. I then tell the evaluator that these events happened in Virginia. 

My husband told his son that he listens to audio books. He doesn’t. He says he exercises. Nope. 

My husband goes to an adult day center. He commented to me that none of them have dementia (including himself). He has Lewy Body Dementia and I now have to help him get dressed, shave him, and brush his teeth. 

They aren’t self-aware enough to report their current state. The doctors should listen to your input.
I just wanted to say thankyou to those that have replied.

Mini update: my husband got the call back yesterday, and the junior consultant wasn't sure what was going on, so he's referring for an MRI and neuropsychiatry assessments.
