There comes a point where you can’t be in your home anymore, depending on your condition. Dementia is one of those.

Does your mom have long-term care insurance? They might pay some of the costs. 

Ask your mom’s doctor when your mom is not in the room: “Is mom ever going to be able to live at home again?” And the doc will say “no” and then you know it is time to sell the house. 

And then you will start the dance of distracting her from the idea of moving back home. So you never give her a hard no, but you are giving her hope. 

Selling the house now will probably give you the most money that you can get - if you let it sit unoccupied for a year, things will probably break, and you need to focus on your mom, not keeping up a house. 

It’s heartbreaking. But I think it is more than any one person (even with overnight help) can do. And you will be running around to find replacements for when the caregivers don’t show up. 

No one expects you to do MORE than you can do. You have your own life to live. Your mom wouldn’t want to take that away from you.
so here's the thing. medicaid, NOT medicare, does have a program where an in-home caregiver can be paid for providing care to someone, but that gives the caregiver automatic power of attorney, which if you are hiring a stranger, you do not want! also, if your mother makes too much money she would not qualify to receive medicaid. there many be a state funded program other than medicaid, that could pay for an in-home home health aide but a)there is a national home health aide shortage and b) there will absolutely be limits on how many hours the home health aide would be able to care for your mother and that would prevent 24hr care. i moved in with my mother despite being disabled myself because the limited care i could provide myself along with her partner was the only way to keep her in her home. even then we had to hire a privately paid home health aide and are now facing her leaving due to a pregnancy. the only other thing i can say is to try to find whatever elderly services programs exist in both the county where she currently lives AND the county she might move to who can advise you on what, if any, options exist. my mom was in the makes too much for medicaid program situation and we opted not to put her excess social security money into a trust, as suggested by a caseworker, because when my mom dies, all that money gets taken by the state as a sort of repayment for her going into a nursing home.
My mom has spent the last 2 months in hospice at a facility, it's costing us $300/day. We are now moving her back home so she can hospice at home, mostly because we can't afford it and she's doing pretty well, she's pretty stable. My stepdad will be the primary caregiver and help her with daily stuff, I trust him completely to do her meds (it's the meals and other cares that he needs assistance with). She is getting a hospital bed provided by the hospital and a wheelchair, weekly visits from her hospice nurse, and twice weekly visits from a PCA who can do hygiene stuff. I live in town and can go over every other day or so, and will do the majority of the housecleaning, laundry and meal prep in addition to their daily meals on wheels. Other family and friends are pitching in with meals and some tasks also. We're setting up a white board and a planner so we know who is coming over on what day. 

This is not ideal, I would prefer that she stay at the facility but my stepfather has not put any financial planning in place for this in spite of all of us (me, my sister, his 2 daughters) pressing him for years to plan for this inevitability. The honest truth is that nursing homes will take all your money before medicaid kicks in. Not even his veteran's benefits will help us out. He is selling a cabin property to pay the bills. Mom is heartbroken, she loves that cabin but the high property values will really help us out on the sale.

My grandmother lived in different levels of assisted living for a decade before she passed, which my mother (a single working mom) paid for. Her bills were around $4-500 a month. In 30 years we went from $500 a month to $9000 a month. And it's worth it to have that peace of mind that your family member is being taken care of, I just wish there were an easier way to afford it. 

If you do decide to keep her at home, know that the hospital will work with you to provide the things and the care you need. Everyone would rather be at home, it's just not always the best option.
What is her prognosis? Is returning home a possibility? Based on the dx I’m assuming it won’t be possible. Please consult an elder attorney to see what your options are, realistically. It sounds like she will be having small strokes until.  If she won’t ever be able to live independently you need to figure out how to pay for her care and her paid for house will be sacrificed for her care. See an attorney.
Try a student in a nursing program. Maybe you could hire them for the day hours and you be there in the evening? Or possibly find one to stay overnight? Just a thought…
Rather than selling the home, could you rent it out allowing for an ongoing income?
Why on earth would it cost 26k a month?
Thank you.  I wish you Ns yours thr very best as well
Thank you for understanding so well 🌹
Thank you so much. It really helps hearing about your journey.  I hope it all turns out the very best way for you and yours 🌹
Thanks! Absolutely calling one this week
It is a thought for sure. The hard part is my mom begging to go home...hone... is so hard seeing her like that
We looked into it for my dad. We were in Texas which you'd expect to be cheaper than California, and it was going to cost 18k if we went through an agency.
It is $30/hr 24 hours per day
I completely understand but in life there are often things we want but aren't possible. Husband's in his 90's and while in really good health, he gets frustrated that he's not able to do things he's done all his life. Many times it's a difficult to accept truth. Good luck.
