We're working with a law firm specializing in Elder Law, they have paralegals that specialize in the state aid application processes. I'd guess there are "services" out there that are scams, my best recommendation would be to do some web sleuthing on "medicaid planner" to see what kind of advice there is to weed out the bad players.

Edit: If you're in the U.S., your state should have some kind of Eldercare resources, they may have advice on finding a good planner.
We are thinking of using Eldercare Resource Planning. For California. Cost is $5,600
I'll echo what others have said about an Elder Care Attorney.  If you can afford one, get one! I'm going to use one to file Medi-Cal paperwork for my Mom to ensure it isn't rejected. That would be way too stressful for me to handle. 

Good luck, OP!
I'm working with an Elder Care Law firm in Kansas. The cost is high, but definitely worth it. They've saved me more than I've spent by giving me legal ways to exclude assets from the "Spend down."  Saved me almost $25,000.  

Furthermore, the firm I'm working with has nurses on staff that check in on my wife on a periodic basis to evaluate the nursing home for proper care and to make suggestions.  They've also updated my will and power of attorney papers so that if something happens to me, my kids won't have to go through a big mess getting my affairs sorted out.

A good Elder Care law firm is worth their weight in gold.
Thank you! I'll definitely look into it before committing.
We're doing so now, in Florida, with Mortellaro Law. Pricey, but so far I'm impressed, it's going well. We also waited too long. Well, to be honest, didn't have a clue that we could even qualify for Medicaid until a family member referred us to them. I think it's going to be a lifesaver, and allow me to go back to work, if I decide to.
Same. Though we weren't referred. My husband found them online. Haven't signed any agreement yet, but I think we're going to go for it. As I said to my husband, "To save money on a lawyer, you can also represent yourself in court too." But, most people realize that's dumb, because we don't know the system. So, pay $ to have someone else (skilled in that area) help with the navigation.
