As soon as we get my mother moved into assisted living I plan to get a personal directive set up for virtually no life saving medical intervention for myself. 

I also will be discussing MAID (medical assistance in dying) to see we’re finally “allowed” to put in a provision along the lines of “I want to be tested for cognitive decline yearly at age ____ and if I’m found to have the start of it, I wish to be assisted to die immediately upon diagnosis”. 

MAID is also supposed to be allowing assistance for mental health issues only as of next March, which is SO comforting for me because most of my medical issues are chronic and not terminal, and I also have mental health issues. This means if I decide I no longer wish to continue to suffer, I can make my own decision. 

My father had dementia in his 70s and my mother is now developed mild cognitive impairment and is progressing towards mild dementia. So nope, I’m out as soon as I’m made aware of it in myself!
Ok, so many questions. I just moved my 64-year-old dad into a memory care facility so this is big on my mind.

Your own personal medical directive--will that start at a specific age? I figure I want life-saving attempts until I start showing significant mental decline.

Also what is this MAID?! Is it in the US? I have been under the impression the US is not in any way about to allow people with dementia a way to chose to die with dignity. I would be 100% on board with considering such a provision, if available to me in another 20-30 years, that if I am no longer able to do tasks xyz by myself due to a diagnosis of Alz/dementia, that would trigger MAID. Do you know what a *relief* that would be to me and my husband?
MAID is in Canada, not sure about similar in the US unfortunately. They’re still kind of making up rules as they go, which is why mental illness alone hasn’t been approved as a “valid” reason as yet. Too many people on the other side who want to force their beliefs on others. 

Here we can make a personal directive at any age, though they tend to focus more on older people. While I’m in my 40s I can still choose what medical treatments I do and don’t want if I’m incapable of making a choice at the time by having a personal directive in place. I know I can also sign a form saying no CPR specifically and the personal directive can approve / decline things like ventilators, blood transfusions, feeding tubes, etc.
I wish my father took us to Canada instead of the US, just because of things like this. When it becomes to humanitarian thing, they're ahead of their southern neighbor. But then again, I should be thankful that I even got to experience living in a first world country. 

Anyway. According to my research, it depends on the state. We used to live in California, we have a "End of Life Option Law", for people with terminal disease. Sadly, dementia isn't covered. Hopefully, they'll expand to that soon.
