All the symptoms you described are classic dementia, NOT normal aging. Especially the hygiene, dressing, and not asking for help. You need a neurologist.
Or a competent general practitioner.
You could go to a neurologist for testing. The GP and even the neurologist gave my mother the screener multiple times. Mild cognitive impairment showed up and then. Worsened rather quickly for a while.
Ask for a referral for neuropsychologist evaluation. Simple tests like the MMSE administered in the USA don’t always catch dementia. They might label it “Mild Cognitive Impairment” but you have to understand that there are only 3 categories, Mild, Moderate, and Severe. That covers such a vast range of behaviors. 

Also, the doctor should ask for your father’s input and then for your brother’s input. My husband has Lewy Body Dementia. He’s attending a day facility. He remarked to me that none of the participants have dementia, they all come from professional careers. He’s so happy about that. Well, they all have dementia. 

What goal are you trying to achieve? Home help? Placement in a facility? Validation that you’re not crazy? You don’t have to answer me. It helps to know in advance what you need and to ask for it.
That seems to be a common problem with getting a dementia diagnosis. The person can operate as "normal" for a short time and appear completely fine for something like a doctor's visit or a short visit from a friend. We used to take Mom to do something else, like a quick shopping trip where she had to be alert before her doctor visits. She couldn't maintain the facade for long enough for both and had no judgment of what was important so people in the store got "normal" and by the time the doctor's visit came along, she was back in full dementia mode and it was easy to see. It felt kind of like we were betraying her to do this but it was the only way for her doctor to see what she was really like.
Thank you!
We’ll look into the logistics of changing GP’s if this visit doesn’t get us anywhere. Thank you
Were there any other diagnostic tests recommended? Also did they prescribe any medication?
Thanks! Good to know exactly what kind of doctor to ask for….we are trying to achieve all of the above I guess….I’d love to get my parents to accept home health but they are both really resistant and my mom is still in pretty good shape. I feel like if we had a diagnosis that might frame his behavior differently for her (he’s not just being difficult he’s sick) and also I know that a facility is in the future so I’d rather get a handle on where we are at before crunch time.
Oh interesting. Yes I’m sure my dad can hold it together for the length of a doctors appointment though interestingly he really struggled during a telemedicine visit. He kept forgetting who he was talking to.
My dad (86) now has a diagnosis of Alzheimer’s and vascular dementia with a stroke that occurred 2 weeks before the MRI in June 2021.  He had a mmse score of 3 out of 30.  He knows he has problems.  Says he’s a mess and talks about his brain.  Little anger except when change is too forced.
Several things can cause dementia-like symptoms, low vitamin d for instance. The doctor will rule out these causes first. A blood test was our first work up. They did the MMSE test. She scored on the low side of “mild cognitive impairment”. Then they did an MRI. She was then diagnosed with vascular dementia and possible Alzheimer’s. This took about a year. It was a very frustrating process.
Make sure legal affairs are in order. Try to introduce home health as “cleaning assistance” or “cooking lunch” or something innocuous. 

Tour facilities now - I even have my husband signed up for one with all the paperwork required. If I required hospitalization, I could send him there tomorrow. He needed a Tb test, for one. 

Join a LBDA support group if you can.
It's not an interaction type that he's used to. Anything that brings them out of their comfort zone brings out the issues we see all the time.
Thank you! Fortunately he recently had bloodwork and everything looked remarkably good considering his age. We’ll push for a neurologist referral and an MRI.
Thank you!
That’s both bad and good news. Mom had a vitamin D and B12 deficiency. That took time to rule out so things may move faster for you. 

One thing you need to do immediately is get a calendar. I used a planner. Record everything.  Ex. Dad put his underwear on over his pants. Dad flooded the toilet today. Dad left the water running.  Take it with you to the appointment. The doctor and you can see patterns form. If he does have dementia it will help with staging. Staging helps you prepare. 

My mother passed away in August. I was completely lost throughout her illness. I’ll be glad to offer any advice I can.
>Thank you!

You're welcome!
I’m so sorry for your loss. We will start keeping a planner for sure. Thank you so much.
