I wonder the same thing all the time  - how long until memory care and how long overall. My Mom will be 85 later this month and is just moving into assisted living. Her mother had similar issues and went into a facility at 85 and eventually passed at 93.

Admittedly, I'm trying to plan so her resources last, which makes me fret and stress all the time.
I apologize if this sounds harsh but it is very hard to tell especially with combined dementia but I would be very surprised if she has 10 years. She could live longer but based on b your description of the deterioration that would be my max. I'm glad she is still maintaining a fair quality of life.

Edit: for clarity, I mean 10 years max until advanced alzhiemers.
Everyone is going to be different 
Our dad died from dementia. When he was diagnosed we decided when he was not able to live alone, we would rotate taking care of him at home, there are 5 of us. We just didn’t know when it was going to be “time”. During a polar vortex winter a few years back, he locked the screen door going outside. Fortunately a neighbor saw him pried the door open and called me. My sister moved in that night. We did round the clock for 2 1/2 years. He didn’t like to be away from home, his comfort zone. He went on hospice 04/28/21 and passed June 5th. He quit eating about 2 weeks before he died
I'm in the same situation trying to plan for her care with the money she has. I want her to have a good quality of life and enriching activities while she can, so she lives in a nicer facility for now, local, family-owned, and low staff turnover. I figure by the time she would get close to running out of money and needing to move to a cheaper place that is connected with Medicaid, she won't be as aware anyway. She would have picked the cheapest of the cheap to start if it were up to her because she has always been a penny pincher, but now that she's heard some stories from some of her neighbors of places that they've hated, she trusts my judgment. These kinds of calculations are pretty grim....
Not harsh at all, I'm the one asking for the honesty, so thank you. I wasn't sure if combined would give her a better shot at having longer, or more of an accelerated timeline.
Combined tends to give a more accelerated time line.
