My Mom is 92 and has had multiple MRI’s her neurologist explained that they do that to track progression and see if any other issues developed that they would normally catch with behavior changes. Because dementia alters cognitive functions they can’t always tell if something pops up with a diagnostic. Listen, your MIL is loved and obviously has people invested in her care. You guys are doing great!
The MMSE screener could be used to chart decline. At some point it becomes useless because they can’t really understand enough to answer questions. 
MRI’s are often done more than once to help determine the amount of damage causing the vascular dementia.
This sounds like irrelevant to your case, but my mom moved around a lot during her MRI (she had bad scoliosis) and they suggested we get another scan as a follow up
You are correct in understanding that her care is shared between 3 family households (her 3 surviving children) on a rotating basis. She has multiple health needs (she is 89 and also has type2 diabetes and hypertension) and does not qualify for medical- the cost of memory care facilities is out of our collective budget, so this is the best albeit not ideal solution for providing her care. Not sure what your solution involves but the palpable judgement is not helpful.
In cases of vascular dementia MRI can be done to see any new development. 

Also, what do you mean shared by 3 households? If I understand correctly you're making her move houses which is not okay. Please discuss this with her doctor and take the correct measures.
Personally, I don't see the need for multiple MRI's.  Dementia is a progressive disease, what would having another MRI prove other than the dementia is progressing? She is 92, what is the expectation?  I agree with the Social worker, unnecessary.
Regarding your original question. For a patient who is nearly 90, I personally would not put her through an MRI especially if she is somewhat claustrophobic and will find it scary because she doesn’t understand it and it doesn’t change anything. I would see an MRI helpful if it was for a patient who was much younger for example wanted to get on SSDI rather than claiming Social Security early/before full retirement age (or they’re too young for Social Security).

She is more likely to experience an injury that gets her hospitalized which accelerates the dementia. To focus on the progression of dementia at her age is putting the cart before the horse. For a 90 year old,  I would find it more important to focus on preventing falls and injury. So keeping the physical environment clear of tripping hazard is important. and to try and mitigate delirious episodes (prevention of UTIs is key here) which can increase risk of unsafe activity and injury. At which point the injuries and illnesses basically spiral, when you treat one you make another worse.
A dementia diagnosis in 2013 would be very advanced by 2022.  This should be an advanced stage where things like wandering, inability to recognize close loved ones, getting lost trying to find the bathroom, inability to use the bathroom or bathe adequately, and be unable to do simple tasks learned in the first years of life occur frequently. 

If your mother is in an advanced stage an MRI would probably not be necessary.  But it also wouldn't hurt unless it would be an ordeal to get her to complete the MRI.

However, if she doesn't seem to be drastically worse than she was in 2013 then it would probably be a good idea to see if there's any noticeable structural change.

A much easier thing to do would be for her to have a Montreal cognitive assessment (MoCA) completed if there is any question of her diagnosis. It's a single page short memory assessment that is better than the mmse but should ideally be given by someone trained in doing it.  Typically with 9+ years of dementia, a score of around 0 to 3 would be expected.
I appreciate that! SIL (who has POA) is not inclined to get it done since the social worker felt it was unnecessary (not sure what the social worker’s qualifications are to make that determination). I realize the procedure is kind of a big deal for someone who is that old and frail (I assume it’s a dye contrast MRI- is that correct?) but if it details new info or helps her qualify for any kind of financial aid I’m wondering if it might be worth doing. Your mom is lucky to have you, BTW!
I think they are just saying that moving her between households will cause additional problems beyond what she already has. If you can’t do it any other way then that’s that.
Moving dementia patients can cause regression, usually short term. That might account for some of the differences between households. There are so many variables, layout in homes, number of people, noise level…  It’s almost impossible to know for sure. Good luck. We’re all in impossible situations trying to do our best.
it could help if you try to make “her space” in each of those three homes as similar as possible. ideally same layout, same curtains, same IKEA furniture items, same tv shows, music. and taking her to the same adult day program consistently.
I think they are also talking about muscle memory. People with Dementia rely a lot on muscle memory so when they are moved to different locations, such as in your mums case, it can be troublesome. I cannot speak for the person who wrote the post, bit I’m not judging you, we do what we have to for family. 

As long as you do what another poster put down and keep her three rooms as close to one another as possible that will help. It would help more if the layout of the homes were similar but we all know that would be near impossible. 

Good luck and your mama is lucky to have three kids who love her so much!
I see this now as you hadn't replied to me, but I assume it is a reply to my comment. 

To explain myself, it's not palpable judgement. I am asking if you are physically moving your MIL between those 3 households. And it's not an ideal solution. I'm not trying to be judgemental, I'm just trying to point out something you're doing which makes more harm than you think, if my understanding of physical rotation is correct. This is why I advised talking to your responsible doctor about the consequences of this. 

Coming from an extended family of many dementia/Alzheimer's patients, we have experienced loss of many kinds. I was just trying to warn you, so you and your family won't go through the same heartbreak mine did and carry its guilt.
I agree. There's no treatment that will change based on the outcome, OP mentions she'll need to be sedated to undergo the MRI. The process of spending a day in the hospital, combined with the sedation will likely have a negative effect of her that may last several weeks. 

The social worker can't give medical advice, but they can give advice regarding the quality of life of her patients.
You make a very good point- she has had some medical issues as she’s progressing (trying to keep everything in relative balance while addressing the cognitive decline). She is still mobile and I wouldn’t want that compromised as a result of an elective medical procedure (taking walks is the main way she gets exercise and I do believe they help her......even if she complains the whole way). UTIs have happened as well (they elevate her blood sugars, so that’s an easy tell). MIL’s situation does remind me of a leaky dam- you fix one leak and another pops up somewhere else....it never stops. I hate dementia!
Oh wow- you have described my MIL to a tee (the severe behavioral part)! Her chart hasn’t changed since 2013 with the MCI diagnosis, but my DH and I see all of that type of behavior (plus many more). I, personally, believe she should get tested and updated- maybe my SIL would be more open to have the cognitive test you described for my MIL since it would be far less stressful to administer- I really don’t think my MIL would be a good candidate for an MRI. I appreciate the info!
If this is only the second one since her diagnosis it makes sense. Social Workers have different criteria for what is necessary. For a Social Worker if it doesn’t help with symptoms or cure something it isn’t classified as necessary. Now yes the MRI uses dye put in with an IV. I myself have had a few for medical reasons. You lay on a table and they slide you into a large machine, you wear headphones that they pipe in the type of music you like into and they use to give you breathing instructions, (the machines are noisy) they take images, slide you out, put in the IV and take more images. It’s time consuming but not really bad and if she went through the first one she should be fine. If they think she might get unduly upset they may give her a mild tranquilizer in the form of a pill.

I saw my Dad through COPD and hospice till he passed, same for my Aunt, now it’s Mom that’s left. I’ve gotten to know the system really well. LOL We’re in Florida, my sister was a nurse and is in Montana. Your MIL is lucky to have so many family members looking out for her.
MIL loves her Game Show Channel and SF Giants baseball games (the baseball games actually got her focused and involved- she loves her Giants LOL)!
To reallynotsohappy- I appreciate your clarification- this is not my first rodeo caring for a dementia family member either (my mom and I cared for my grandmother who had Alzheimer’s until she passed). Yes, I agree with you on how challenging it is making sure your loved one is as comfortable as possible, and ideally having her at one place is the best. I’m also confident you’re aware how draining it is and sometimes you don’t have the luxury of keeping the person in one place, especially if that’s the condition for sharing help among family members. I am not the POA in this situation (SIL is), and MIL’s PCP is well aware of her care situation. To suggest it is not okay is tone deaf- dementia is not okay! We are caring for her to the best of our abilities and budgets.
it’s really hard. They snowball. Six months ago, my grandmother was pretty mobile with her *rollator*. A little too mobile. Just as her physical condition recovered from the first hip break, she correspondingly got *too confident*and started going out and about without asking for help or telling anyone. This cycle played over and over with every little setback and resurgence. One injury created a weak spot for the next trauma to blow through.
Thanks for the info- I’ve gotten both dye and non-dye MRIs....not a fan of the dye-contrast myself (you guys are special- you got music during the procedure- I just got ear plugs!). Sedation would likely be necessary for MIL because she gets anxious and confused, well, pretty much all the time. I do think there has been a significant progression since she was first diagnosed, but she also hasn’t been evaluated for symptoms in-person since the first diagnosis (it’s been mostly phone appointments with SIL). MCI definitely does not apply to her anymore (she doesn’t recognize family anymore but she knows she wants them by her her constantly). Dementia is just awful- I helped my mom care for my grandma when I was 17 and it’s heartbreaking experiencing it all over again. You have truly walked a LONG journey- I hope you have been able to be kind yourself as well.
Holy cow! That crazy! Falling is such a scary risk! My MIL has tried to wander- we’ve been fortunate to have safety measures in place (2 locks on the front door- one she can unlatch but the other is keyed and we leave the key up out of her reach....we know if she was trying to escape if the lower latch has been unlatched....and our running shoes are in her bedroom and also on her feet). We can never let our guard down when she is staying at our home.
