I suggest you get some rest and trust they will call you if you need to return tonight. There are no guarantees, of course, but it is important to take care of yourself.
Your caregivers should be able to tell you when she is close. They will use words like "transitioning" or "active" to mean she has begun the dying process. 

&#x200B;

I am so sorry. There are no good answers here. It sounds like she knows you love her, and that she loves you. Whatever happens, cling to that. And may the time you have with her always be a blessing.
The hospice staff will be able to tell you when the time has come to stay. Rest. So sorry 🙏
Dementia sucks
Our dad died from dementia at home on hospice 

Our hospice nurse always said to be kind yo ourselves before she left 

You have kept your vows and she knows you love her. Take a bit of rest
Thank you.
You need rest, I'm sure she wouldn't want you to run yourself into the ground. The hospice staff will let you know when it is time, take care of yourself.
This sucks. Your wife has a great partner. Stay strong and just talk to her while you're with her.
I’m so sorry for what you are going through. 

As others have said, there are signs that hospice will look for.  I learned that when my mom passed. 

My sibs and I played her favorite songs, held her hand and prayed.
Also ask if she “rallies”, that you be called. There is something called terminal lucidity, where previously unresponsive patients rally for a few hours or a day just before they die. My mom did this but she didn’t have dementia. She was able to say her goodbyes.
compromise,  can they set you  a bed up next to hers so you can rest and be there?

If not,  get some rest and be ready to go when they call.

I am so so sorry you are going through this, I hope you aren't alone.
Sorry for your loss. they will be able to tell when she is in the last day or so. The breathing pattern changes from being merely shallow to something called the "death rattle". A very distinctive sound that sounds like snoring and gargling at the same time. This sound indicates the final 24 hours or so. we witnessed it caring for my grandmother in home hospice before she passed 10 days ago. 

you may consider bringing over a CD player and plugging it in and playing it for her with her favorite music so that she is feeling some musical energy sent from you, when you are resting.
