Every time someone says they’re irritable but don’t need help yet, I think or say that yes, they do need help. Try to get her in a day program a few hours or days a week. I was very frustrated with my husband and that melted away when I got help.

Edit: I think also better to introduce help inside the house or outside earlier on if the person with dementia isn’t resistant. That gets them used to it and there may be less issues later on.
If you're frustrated to the point of being irritable to your wife then you DO need help. Your mental illness needs caring for too. Don't underestimate how stressful taking care of others can be.
And it’s OK to “compassionate lie” to try and get her to the doctor, respite care (some assisted living places offer this “daycare” or even overnight if they have beds available), or other types of appointments. 
Before I learned that term here on this subReddit, I told my mom white lies as to why she had to go to assisted living - “you need to stay here a little while to help get you better recover from your illnesses.” My mom actually did have a very treatable breast cancer and other minor health issues, so it was easier to convince her it was a “short term” situation. 

I agree with 58y, try respite care, or ask family and/or friends to help you a few hours a day a couple times a week.
I'd say, take the time to do something selfishly. 

One approach is to literally do something that "only you" want to do. Just go out and be by yourself and do what you want to, for you. For this one, do your best to avoid guilt-tripping yourself -- it's your time, your experience, refill yourself (one cannot pour from an empty cup), be thankful for the time. 

A second approach is to mindfully frame what you're doing as "for you". For example, if you're eating a meal with your wife, pre-game and tell/remind yourself "you" want to eat this meal with her. "You" are giving yourself the experience of being with her. "You" feel better when giving her a piece of yourself. Prepare a "this was for me" checkbox and check it off as you go. Be as honest to yourself, as you can, in this mode -- Avoid feeling like someone else pushed this on you. If you feel like there was some other way you could be doing something for yourself, remember it for the first approach.

Godspeed and happy travels.
Hi, OP. I notice that you say you want help for *you,* but then much of your discussion centers on what you can do for *her.*

I am not bipolar, but probably have some shadow Asperger's floating around in my hereditary mental makeup. I too get annoyed, a "don't suffer fools gladly" mentality, although having a definite diagnosis of dementia for my life partner has helped me understand more clearly what's happening with her, what I can do, and what I can't do. 

One area I've been exploring for many years that helps: Buddhist mindfulness. Please know I am not pushing religion. Rather, offering a source for attitudes, understandings, technologies for coping strategies that can bring peace and patience.

In a nutshell, we are not our bodies, or our minds, or our emotions. Meditation can offer an opportunity to watch your own mental processes, and place some distance between what you *feel* and what you *do* about those feelings. (Meditation is not about stopping the mind from thinking, but about choosing what you attend to in the mind.)

A teaching I've found very useful is Eight Verses for Training the Mind. The Dalai Lama has the 8 verses and a meaty explanation here: https://www.dalailama.com/teachings/training-the-mind

If you want another route or do not have access to a meditation center, I'd recommend anything by Thich Nhat Hanh, either books or online.

Thank you for your compassion and skillful self-insights.
Peer support! Check out Well Spouse Association and r/WellSpouses for an intro.
I just had a conversation with my husband about being primary caregiver for my mom. I told him I feel like I’m not trying hard enough, I get so frustrated with her, and it’s hard to hide. He reminded me I’m still dealing with my dads death (been 6 months), I’m just in the beginning of my career and have a part time job, and have my first baby on the way. We’re dealing with a lot. It’s ok to ask for help. Asking my sister for more assistance was the best thing for me. I hope you find something that works for you.
Put child locks on the oven, hide anything that could cause a fire, put on her favorite movie and go golfing with your buddies.

Read up on childhood trauma, CPTSD "the body keeps the score" and see if your childhood may be related to your bipolar and her childhood to her dementia. Try to be mindful of your mood and avoid others when you're irritable and meditate.
Her doctors(primary, neurologist) are indifferent.  I was given the name of a highly recommended pcp but my wife didn't want to offend her current primary.  She has a victim mentality and trying to dissuade her from that view has been futile, leading to her shouting at me not to be her doctor.  She won't change her diet(she's vegetarian), won't stop her long addiction to diet sodas or alcohol.  

Yes,I post here because I feel like I'm going to explode, but in my calmer moments, I tell myself she's going to die, whether from diabetes complications or dementia, but I'm watching her go into her final descent.  It's my way of acceptance as well as my way of trying to retain some degree of mental stability.  I'm sad; so abysmally sad at what is happening to her.  We haven't had a good marriage but that's separate from my feelings for her as a person who is suffering.  

No one with a spouse/partner, family member or friend with dementia comes away unscathed.  It's worse than watching someone die from cancer.  We're all walking wounded.
I don't underestimate it.  My father and I took care of my mother through her final months of cancer.  After seven months we were both at our breaking points.  Shortly after that, she died. 

 I don't deny or dismiss what's going on with me and I communicate my struggles to my psychiatrist and friends.  As I say, my wife is still more 'here' than not.  No paranoia, delusions, wandering, sundowning.  I want to respect her autonomy as long as she isn't a danger to herself.  I lost the ability to work and be self-reliant when I relapsed back into bipolar.  That wound has never healed, so I don't want to take anything away from my wife's QOL.
Her primary is a clod; a third rate doctor.  The neurologist was equally distant and sent her on her way.  There's been no re-evaluation(9 months) and I have no desire to get into an argument with her.  My wife had memory problems for eight years, which her doctors back in Maryland chalked up to the stress of her having to deal with my bipolar illness.  It was clear to me, though, that she was struggling with her memory, writing every little thing down and a mild degree of confusion.  No friends or family.  I'm gently trying to plant the seed of moving back to Maryland where she has nieces and nephews, as well as a sister in memory care.
Lao Tzu, Thich Nhat Hanh, The Dalai Lama, Alan Watts...influenced by all of them as is my wife.  Much is out of our control but we're not helpless if we accept a situation or condition as it is.  I understand it's not about changing what is happening but learning to accept it.   Not easy, though, in the case of a life altering illness but that is the point; if you can't change your circumstances you need to change the way you look at it.  Viktor Frankl, the psychiatrist who was in several of the death camps during WW2 said something to that effect.  I  thank you for sharing your thoughts and insights.
Thank you!
Thank you! This looks like a very promising resource!
Familiar with some of those psychoanalytic concepts.  Dr. Wilhelm Reich.  Traditional psychiatry hasn't been helpful nor psychotherapy.  We seem to go over the same issues without getting below the surface.  But, for the moment, I have to deal with what is, both with me and my wife.  In myself, I'm looking for the reset button that will restore my neuroendocrine function, sleep and emotional stability.  If I'm on the verge of drowning and my wife is holding onto me, we're both going to drown.
Of course you want her to have a high QOL! Getting help doesn't mean she has to go to a home, it can mean having someone come in to help take care of the cleaning or anything else you need help with so you can focus on your and her health. I don't believe that would take away from her autonomy. Do whatever you think is best for yall, I was just making a suggestion, I'm sorry if I sounded aggressive or rude!
I’m so sorry you are having to deal with this alone. I agree that moving back to where family is would be the best thing.  Once you find a better doctor, have her evaluated again.  And for you, if you can afford it, consider moving your wife into Memory Care as well.  It will be better for both of you. And if she could share a room with her sister, that would save some $$.

Best of luck.
God bless you. Yes, I didn't want to toss the whole enchilada at you to start. Sounds like you already have the enchilada, basket o' chips, guacamole…

And yes, it's hard as hell to move it from abstract theory to a sustaining practice. Personal experience talking there.

I'm pretty sure there are still Covid-hangout meditation practice groups online, Zoom or whatever. A sangha can be a big help. IMO, YMMV. *Tricycle* (magazine), Thay's Plum Village groups, may be places to look, if you're not already familiar with them, and can't leave home much. 💔
I hope so! We’re a 34-year-old organization but too few people know about us.
My mom (72) has major dementia and had a very traumatic childhood. Traditional psychotherapy won’t help. My mom is  difficult to deal with but she’s in a residence so I’m ok as I only see her once a week. 

Anyway, EMDR is pretty helpful and study CPTSD. Be aware of your self talk. Nothing is untreatable If you have an open mind. It may be time to get live in help and put your wife in a day center (that provides care and stimulating activities. Sorta like a daycare for kids but for seniors with cognitive issues). Yes, you are at the stage where you need help as you’re drowning. 

The stress responses can be fight, flight or freeze. Yours is fight (“bipolar”). Then you regret your anger and feel shame which causes depression which makes you more likely to have another outburst and the cycle continues.

Cry to release the fear and shame. Vacillate between crying and laughing and resurface into your authentic self while being grateful for being alive. Know your triggers, find a community and support, write a gratitude journal. Grieve until you stop blaming yourself and realize you’re innocent and lovable.
No problem.  We had a conversation about moving back to Maryland where she has a niece and nephews.  My wife was enthused and is already looking at properties back in Montgomery County.  I'll miss Florida but her well being and contentment is more important.  And we're not going to sell the condo, here.
Thank you.  She's come to hate travelling, whether driving or flying.  I understand that.  I experience that with bipolar.  Maybe I'm naive, but in my unprofessional opinion, she's not bad enough for memory care.  Just have to play it by ear.
Thank you! A question in brief Reddit-ese (I was just drafting an email after cursory check of website): do y'all do lesbians? Not necessarily special programming or resources, but community ethos. Am I likely to get the stink-eye from anyone for being queer?
I'm glad! I hope that it will help you deal with some of the stress.
My parents got stuck waiting for each other to drop the shoe and say "I really need help". I humbly suggest bringing this up with your counselor and finding a way to frame moving to Maryland as for you, instead of your wife.

[ps, my parents both developed dementia within the same 1-2 year time frame, and it took a car accident > chest impact > heart surgery worries to have them move closer to family and to get support]
Something to consider: many if not most assisted living places have transitional care. My mom was in the regular care for about five months before the staff determined she needed to go to MC.  She was wandering uninvited into other residents’ rooms, and sometimes taking things, or eating their food.  She also was considered a flight risk as she kept hanging out by the (coded) entrances.
We do! Lots of LGBTQ members and support group participants.
That changed.  By the evening my wife was upset by the idea and it became tense.  No more discussion about it but she knows I'll move back if she wants.
I just had that discussion with my wife and she's thrilled with the idea of moving back.  She needs her family and I need their help.  Also, better medical care than we've found here in the Space Coast area of Florida.
Cool! May I humbly suggest that at least a pro-forma short statement on the website, to the effect that we're welcome, would be helpful? Especially for us boomers; we've learned not to make assumptions about whether we'd be welcome. Painful histories. And I had to ask because I don't have the bandwidth to get all hopped up on hope, only to have those hopes dashed.  ❤️💙
So glad to hear that!!
Absolutely! That’s why we try to use Spouses and partners even though Spouses is in our name, but we can make that clearer! :-)
Thank you. Again, boomer goggles, we know "partners" can refer to those who have legally divorced for financial reasons, rather than to us. I remember AIDS. I remember *Why Can't Sharon Kowalski Come Home?* (1988, bio-family objected to same-sex partner involvement). The paranoia is baked in. If it ain't essential service (financial, legal, medical, psychotherapy) where I need to put on my Karen hat if needed to get service, I find it prudent to ask.
Makes total sense. Thank you for bringing it up and reminding me that the language we use is important.
Thank you!
And I'm ashamed this is an afterthought. You list LGBTQ. Please make explicit that trans folk are welcome. Similar concerns to mine. There are some nasty gatekeeping wars afoot in our community. It sounds like people of all sexualities, genders and orientations are welcome.
