While there's nothing that can be done to reverse dementia per se certainly there are a variety of meds that can help slow it down and improve symptoms, if ever so slightly.  Aricept and so on.  

Persuasion to see a doctor is another matter.  Only suggestion is to get her there on another pretense - a general health checkup perhaps - and the primary can certainly do basic neuro screen tests while she's there and refer her to a neuro.  

Convincing someone with dementia to do things is non trivial but often you just have to use careful persuasion, creative lying, etc. to get them to do things especially as it relates to their health as they are very often convinced absolutely nothing is wrong with them and they are perfectly fine.  Sometimes even just say setting an appointment and getting them in the car and on the way and before they necessarily even realize they are going to the doctor they may resist a lot less once they are there; e.g., you could say "Hey let's go out to lunch" but really you're going to the doctor and maybe afterward actually take them to lunch as a reward.
Ask her to describe her symptoms to her GP, it’s entirely possible she may be on a medication that actually has speech aphasia as a side effect.
There are medical issues that fall under deleriums that can look a lot like dementia but are treatable. The only way to know for sure is to get her in to see a doctor.
I am not a medical professional, but here is my take after being a care giver for many of my elder family members. It’s not necessarily dementia. She should go to the doctor and see if something else might be at play. Infection, reaction to meds, or some other kind of medical problem that might get worse beyond forgetting words. Try to figure it out with her doctor and don’t let them be quick to just say dementia and write her off. My MIL was diagnosed with dementia and after being in and out of the hospital, in turns out it was really sleep apnea that had gotten extremely bad. In my opinion, Dementia should be last resort diagnosis when everything else has been ruled out. Older people have more specialized medical needs, kinda like children. I’m not sure how it works in the UK, but in the US we have a medical power of attorney designation that can be done fairly easy, so you can make medical decisions and be her advocate. Good luck.
The way I got my mom in was to tell her other (long deceased) family members had dementia or memory issues and it would really help MY health record if she got tested so I could have a family record for the future. Threw in that it would help out the grand kids as well. Since I took it off of her being diagnosed she went along with it.
Does she live on her own?

An improved diet may help imo.
She could try a med to slow down the progression. It’d give her more time doing as well as she can. Also she can plan ahead with you now so she has a say in what happens later.
This is golden advice - all of this has been true for me … the gentle persuasion and doctors or other activities (social groups here) under different pretense has been the only way for us
Oh that’s smart.
