In my very unscientific observations of women who I personally know that developed dementia/Alzheimer’s, before they developed dementia, all four of them had to take care of very sick husbands (3 terminal cancers, 1 Parkinson’s).  These wives were under tremendous stress and I can guess had a lot of anxiety. So, IMO, I think that could be a link???
Not a scientist or a doctor but I believe the constant beat down of stress contributes to memory loss. It seems like I've read depression could also play in as a factor to dementia.
I've also thought this to be a contributing factor too. From a scientific perspective I'm not sure how to actually explain it though.
My grandmother was the abusive one and she's the one who got Alzheimer's.

Both of her children have dementia now. Emotional abuse or genetics? My money is on genetics.
As a caregiver…
My mother had Alzheimer’s in her 70s, and now my 59 yr old husband has dementia. Their only
Link is me😳. I don’t think this is causational.
Depression and anti-depressants are linked to dementia/Alz, yes. That type of abuse can certainly contribute. So sad and uncalled for. Sheesh.

Edit: Also, stomach issues are related to stress and can affect brain health, depression, anxiety, all related to outside factors...
What is his abuse doing to you and your wife? With all the stress of caring for a person with dementia, I'd be afraid of losing my shit under a barrage of criticism.
I think I’ve seen a couple articles suggesting that anxiety might link to dementia…though I’m not sure how much research has actually been done on it.  My mom didn’t have the verbal abuse, but did have serious anxiety most of her life, and I have suspected that might have been a contributing factor for her.  After a lifetime of anxiety, it was around the time she declared bankruptcy and her son died that she started showing symptoms…it just seemed like her brain couldn’t take it anymore.
I'm my personal experience...I really think it does, or at the very least the speed at which it claims a person.
I don't know if there's any scientific research on this, but from personal experience I think abuse can contribute. It might not be the root cause, but I believe it can speed up the progress/make it worse. 

My grandmother started rapidly declining after her husband has died (he was a high-functioning alcoholic), and she was left with her son who had a much worse alcohol problem, was stealing her money and beating her up.
Thank you for replying. My mother didn't have to take care of any sick husbands or relatives, but she certainly experienced stress as a young divorcee on welfare with 2 small children. She then went back to school and became a high achiever in a stressful career. I'm interested in finding studies on this topic, but most of what I've seen focuses on physical abuse rather than emotional/verbal.
My mom was pushed over the edge with the stress of caring for her mother with dementia and unappreciative family members, as if a switch was turned off. Now she is in the mid-late stages herself a few years later.
Funny you should mention depression--my cousins were worried that my 89-yr-old aunt (my mom's older sister) was exhibiting signs of dementia, but her doctor recently diagnosed it as depression & anxiety. I guess the line between depression and dementia might be fuzzy.
Thanks for your response. Part of my attraction to this subreddit is the abundance of anecdotes and opinions that seem to corroborate these sorts of observations. I'd love to read scientific literature on the subject, but no luck in my search so far.
Thank you for commenting. You could be right about genetics, but my money's on a combination of factors. My mother's the only one of her 5 siblings with dementia, and her eldest sister is 91 and still living independently. Their father lived on his own until he died at 88. Of course this doesn't rule out genetics--my mother's environment and lifestyle may have triggered the genetic component. All I really do know is that I don't know the answers.
Thank you for your concern. It's stressful for sure, but my wife and I have a fantastic relationship and are solid support for each another. We've also discovered that my step-father is a classic bully who always backs down when we stand up to him and don't take his shit.  

My mother used to be able to stand up to him too, but it must have been a lot tougher facing the abuse alone for so many years.
Oh yes I can see that. My uncle was diagnosed and medicated with depression long before his diagnosis of dementia. I can say his dementia worsens the depression to the point where I wonder if he'll come out of this darkness. I am sorry you and your loved ones are dealing with this awful situation.
[https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2022/03/220316100426.htm](https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2022/03/220316100426.htm)  


"Strikingly, the presence of Ab was associated with increased anxiety and apathy. Higher levels of apathy were also related to a more rapid cognitive decline."
Thanks for the link!
