Tactfully it’s not gonna work. Our dad died from dementia and using his cell phone was one of the first things to go. He also gave out his ssn over the phone and got conned into ordering stuff. 
Gently, this might be the time to start making long term plans. We decided when daddy got to the point he couldn’t live alone, we would move in with him on a rotation basis, to keep at home. We just didn’t know when to start. We had a bad winter lotta snow lotta freezing temperature. He locked himself outside, a neighbor saw him pried open the screen door and called me. 
Something like this could happen to your dad. Tactfully and respectfully, the future maybe now
I know the deaf have blinking lights in the house for door bell and phone ringing. Perhaps look into that.

Tbh, if your Dad can’t handle his phone’s basic features, programming or understanding an Apple Watch’s functionality may be a mountain to high to climb. 

My husband is 59 with signs of dementia (Parkinson’s) that we are having assessed.  He used to be a high-level computer programmer and mathematician, he now can’t learn new “skills” or navigate apps or text messaging. He misplaced his wallet and phone frequently, even with a set established location for both.
Even though your dad says he wants to give it a shot, it would probably be impossible for him to learn how to use it. Unless his current phone is silenced, he's already not reacting to hearing it ring, and who could say if he'd be able to connect the vibration to its meaning and act on it. It seems like he could also just take it off? Trying to learn new things and ultimately failing at them can also be especially hard emotionally for a person who has dementia. They can actually sometimes remember that feeling of failure long after they can remember what brought it on.

My mom sounds similar to your dad and she goes through periods of "organizing" (misplacing important items). Often people who have dementia hide things that they know are important because they have some sense that they keep losing them (or specifically that those items keep getting "stolen" since they have no explanation for why they're missing) and want to keep them secure. I strongly recommend the book "The 36-Hour Day" if you haven't read it. It's really helped me better understand what my mom is going through and how to help her. I also recommend contacting your dad's local Alzheimer's Association chapter and area agency on aging for assistance. 

Sorry that I do not have any recommendations for your original question! Good luck.
My parents tried the Apple watch for Mom. She couldn't learn how to use it.

She had been really good at that kind of stuff, but it just wasn't going to happen anymore.

I got Dad a different communication device (GrandPad) when I had to shut off his phone (he had 3 car warranties and no car, and called the mayor of the town he used to live in for a ride home from memory care, among lots and lots of other phone adventures) and he eventually was able to use it part of the time. It took months. His biggest problem is that he wants to have it with him 24/7 so the battery is usually dead.

The general problem, though, is that when the existing tech becomes too hard to use, learning new tech - no matter how much simpler it is - is usually not possible.
Landline. No voicemail/answering machine. Call until he answers.
I was in your position before I ended up moving in - but while I was still away, a Blink home camera system was a lifesaver. 

I was VERY reluctant to use it since the video seems to invasive. However - we use it mainly as a walkie talkie and works fabulously (plus you can set up as many as you want).

The other nifty thing was setting it up for “at home” vs away mode … this was critical for not eating up moms autonomy (she can leave do whatever she wants without me checking up), but alerts you when they get back home. 

My mom goes through ‘loops’ where she forgets what the cell phone was / is or confused it with a notebook (so the thought of using it for communication goes out the window at times).

Oh and I lived about 30 miles away at the time when we used the blink - i think you can connect it any distance
The list of things I've bought to help my mom compensate for dementia related issues that were never used or briefly used is long and depressing.

It took me a long time to stop trying to fix the problem by buying things.

Your mileage may vary.
A grandpad is good for video calls and it has an auto answer feature. Someone with MCI should be able to figure out the simple interface.
With my dad we got rid of the cell phone and got him a Samsung smart watch. He can receive calls without his cell phone. It’s also good because if he leaves the house and gets lost, we can locate him. 

I suggest you start preparing things while he’s still able to, like where he would want to go as he declines. See a lawyer and get what you need to take over his finances and to make medical decisions on his behalf. It’s easier to get it set up now rather than after he’s declined too much.
I thought about the Apple watch also. If it didn't require charging as often as it does it would have been a no brainer. My dad will leave a watch on his wrist full time no problem. To try and add the charging stage it would just get lost. What I found worked best was a security camera system. I bought six totally wireless cameras that I could place in all the main rooms and by the doors. I could log in anywhere my cell phone worked and i could communicate through the built in speaker and microphone. Dad liked to get up at 2am and turn all the burners on the stove on...these cameras saved both our lives.
I know your question involves an Apple device but I wonder if you shouldn't be looking for an assisted living facility?  Our Dad will be needing more and more help and since you are not near it is going to be difficult for you to manage.  If you want him safe and you want some peace of mind that he is safe then consider moving him. Good luck.
Get am Amazon echo and install it every room in his home. Turn on the drop in feature. Buy yourself an echo. Then you have access to him 24/7 without him having to answer. Or get him an iPhone and turn on automatic answer.
Agreed. With dementia, short term memory disappears; new skills evaporate. And folks who grew up with tech see iPhones (etc) as simple, but I watched my slightly-brainfogged but not dementia dad, engineer by trade, the perfect geek, struggle with all tech. ("How do I open a new document on my computer?" over and over. Then the OS updated, changed slightly, and he had conniptions. And felt ashamed, inadequate.)

If your dad can't do simple tasks on his phone when he can find it, he may as well be holding a brick. He needs human supervision, likely memory care. I am so sorry.
Absolutely agree. The Apple Watch idea sounds nice, but it is wishful thinking to plan on a person with dementia learning a new skill/routine. You might want to start planning for him to be less available and capable, not more.
Thank you for this input. Due to many different constraints, moving in with dad is not an option. He will be better cared for in a facility or community when the time comes. Fortunately he has a live-in partner now who helps him manage things beautifully.

Until dad gets a diagnosis from his neurologists stating that he can no longer makes decisions for himself, he has freedom to make his own decisions. I am just looking for ways to stay in communication better.

I'm so sorry about your father. This road is difficult for everyone.

I also recognize that everyone's situation is different.
Thanks for this insight. I think it's not that Dad can't understand how to use his phone, he just does not remember to check it often enough to stay in touch.

I like the blinking light idea, since it's a stimulus that would be hard to ignore / overlook.
Go back to what is baked into their long term memory. It works for us.
Second installing Blink cams. They're not perfect (there's a lag with the motion recordings as with all net cams) but if they have a wi-fin network available to connect to, they can be total sanity savers. I use mine (the ones installed in my dad's house as motion monitors at night and for emergency welfare checks since I live hundreds of miles away if he's gone a bit without an actual touch-base).
Interesting! I will look more into this idea. Thank you!
Thanks for this! I'll check out the Samsung. We've already taken care of all logistics for future situations, outside of where and how he will live when he has more challenges.

I think getting rid of the cell phone is an interesting idea...
I think everyone here is assuming that my dad is completely defunct. He had a diagnosis of MCI less than 6 months ago, and is quite a functional and independent person. He just has memory lapses, of which he is aware.
I'm not yet worried about his safety, especially since he lives with a woman who can alert me if anything is wrong.

I do need to stay in communication with him as we make plans together for his future, and so I'm looking for ideas for systems that help him remember to check his phone and email. 

I do appreciate your comments. I have learned so much from this sub.
Pretty sure he would say no to this. I would!
I can see where everyone here is coming from, since learning new skills is pretty difficult for those with dementia. I guess I'm hoping he would respond to an automatic reminder when he is not holding his phone.

I value the input that I am getting in this thread, as this is new territory for me.
Plus Apple watches require frequent charging, most likely beyond him now. If he doesn’t have legal papers done yet, consult an elder law atty ASAP: Durable Power of Attorney, Medical Power of Atty (can be in one doc), will, etc. Make sure POA’s don’t have effectiveness clauses to jump thru hoops like requiring physician letters  before it goes into effect, or vague phrases like our MIL’s “___ is authorized to make medical decisions for me when I can no longer make my own decisions” with no other conditions. Totally useless— Who decides when that is? MIL can still make decisions- poor ones not in her best interest, but her POA doesn’t address that. So sorry you’re on the same journey as we are.
Absolutely! If we had placed our dad, they would have drained all his money, we would have had to sell the house and they would take his pension. We just decided we could take care of him ourselves.

Be kind to yourself when making the tough decisions
I work in a facility that cares for people with various types of dementia and can tell you the best way to stay in touch is seeing them in person. In person visits mean the world to these people, and helps them remember you when they see you often. If that cannot be done regularly, many of our residents can chat on the phone. Not video, they can't seem to grasp that one. The conversation may eventually not make sense but they will know it's you and that is really good for them.
I'm so sorry to hear about your Dad.
As this would be a "new" thing again your dad would have to learn what the blinking lights mean, unfortunately they may not work as the short term memory is effected. Then it's just blinking lights and this may be worrying or frightening when you don't know why it's happening
The cell phone became too complicated for him. We ended up deleting all his apps and taking off the passcode lock before we switched to the watch. He didn’t use the internet any more anyway.
I apologize.  From your post I thought your Dad's female friend was moving out of the house and he would be living alone which is why I responded as I did.  Again sorry for misunderstanding.
Just an option lol
It was/is a challenge with 4 and 1/2 person(sister didn't help). Daddy was evaluated for home PT and we were told it wouldn't help. She evaluated him for a walker, but he couldn't process it. We had a hard time trying to get him to sit down to urinate, standing he kept missing. We had to walk him in and sit him down and wait, or he would stand up! The only thing we didn't have a problem with was him wearing diapers. We just called them underwear

s/n I having a heck of a time with my Apple Watch and I'm 71
Despite this I would consider getting him something like a Doro phone - perhaps with a lanyard.

My dad is in care now and keeps his in his top pocket. Every so often he just picks it up when I call and it means the world to me.

I know that his contact is minimal (£5/month) and he can’t figure out how to phone out and cause problems.

As for it being an actual tool, I’d agree with every one else in that it was one of the first things to go.
Consider going old school with a land line. My dad is slowly losing his ability to manage his phone, all he does now is incessantly click on maps. But when he hears the landline ring he seems to remember what that is and how it works
Thank you, I know from experience with other LO's that this is true! Currently, Dad is quite socially engaged, gets out regularly for exercise, shopping, etc. He is not in any danger of forgetting me for a while!

I visit and stay with him every couple of months, but I think that doing Facetime or something besides regular phone calls may help motivate him to keep in touch via phone, though.

Thanks for this perspective.
This is a good point, thanks.
No need for apologies! I learn from each reply.
My dad would wear diapers too, but every once in a while, he felt compelled to wash the poop out in the bathroom sink- ugh!
😮
