It could be a lot of things, it could be a lot of things. A possibility that immediately came to mind was “silent seizures” aka “absence seizures”. Definitely something  to as his doctor/care team about. From my experience with my dad who has dementia this has not been one of his symptoms BUT everyone’s dementia is unique and some people get symptoms that others do not. Like xdisk said, the brain is highly complex and it could be a number of things.
Have a few family members with Huntington's Disease and that's one of the things we noticed was a vacant stare just showing up randomly.
I'd say this is something you should bring up to his medical team. There's too many variables to factor in. The brain is a complicated thing.
Thank you! He actually does take meds for seizures daily. I guess he used to have grand mal seizures due to his medical condition and stroke. He hasn't had a noticeable one in about 15 years, but this is a possibility. I just read something today that a sign of Dementia or other similar things could be staring into space. There's also something about their eyes not being able to move as quickly as others.
It seems to be something that happens with many Neurological disorders. Everyone will be watching TV and he'll just look at you for no reason for about 30-60 seconds (sometimes longer), then turn his head back toward the TV. I've mentioned the early onset of things like Dementia to my fiance because I know his brother is more susceptible to it but he usually doesn't want to talk about it. I know it's sensitive but I'd like to prevent any deterioration we can. We have him do crossword puzzles, word searches, etc. and that seems to help keep his mind working more than just watching TV.
That's what we say constantly. We wish we could be inside his head when he makes up stories (confabulation) and when he tells certain jokes. He just recently saw his Neurosurgeon but I'm going to keep a list of things that are concerning to me. I assume that he'll be more prone to things like Dementia because of his medical history thus far (stroke, coma, multiple brain surgeries, etc.) but it would be beneficial for us to know what to look for so that we can get him more appropriate care. Right now, he only sees a primary care physician (we started taking him last year because he's very overweight and the woman he lives with doesn't take him unless it's an emergency) and he sees his Neurosurgeon only when he requires revision surgery (maybe every 5-10 years unless something bad happens). I'd like to have him see a Neurologist once a year at the very least.
