No, but I hear 'you need to take care of yourself' like a command. And it is hard to find time or quite frankly the energy or money.
My family kind of sucks in this regard. They don't ask how I'm doing both because they don't give a shit and also, if they did, it would acknowledge that I was carrying a heavy load while they go about living their "busy, important" lives care free.

Worse, if they actually DO something ... like bring a take-out hamburger or some cookies for my Dad ... they are treated like royalty. He is so grateful. So thankful. A task that literally took them 10 minutes (they live nearby) is appreciated FAR more than the 24/7 care that I am providing.

I've just come to accept the fact that I will never get that appreciation and that's fine. However, I still resent my siblings for their lack of effort and concern over the last 2 years. I always wondered how fractured families happened later in life -- my MIL's siblings don't speak to one another -- and now I get it. These kind of events in life are revealing about the character of my siblings and they have not answered the call. At. All.

**Edit:** I actually remember my sister one time asking me how I was doing and I answered that "Things are really difficult. I have no time for myself or my work or anything." and she answered with "Is there anything I can do?". Well, yes, there is a ton of things you can do. Take a day of the week; take him out for a meal once a week; come spend some time with him. But, none of them want to hear that or are willing to give any of their time. They just laugh it off.
After I became a 24/7 caregiver for my wife four years ago, I joined an online support group and after my first post, someone replied "In one year, you will have no friends. In two years, you will have no family. Nobody gives a shit about you and you're about to find that how in the hardest way  possible." They were 100% correct. Nobody ever comes to visit me. Nobody offers to help me. While I absolutely love what little help I get and she adores everyone that comes to see her, it would be nice if someone could pick up a phone and ask how I'm doing.
I’m really sorry for what you and your mom are going through. 

Cynical view perhaps, but I think some people (family, friends) intentionally don’t ask because doing so would highlight the obvious fact that they should be doing more to help.
I am an eldercare advisor and I make it a point to find out how the caregivers are doing. Especially at-home caregivers who spend their entire day taking care of someone else. Self-care is so important. I actually asked someone what relaxes them and they said it used to be a one hour massage. But now they can’t even find an hour for themselves. And so many people say “just hire someone to help” which often feels like a slap in the face that someone else, maybe even a stranger, could do what they do. 

Make sure you practice some form of self-care because if you burn out, there may not be someone else you trust enough to take over.
I nearly blew up about this very thing yesterday.

No one has asked in some time, and honestly, i've been holding back for so long.. I'm honestly kind of even afraid to answer honestly.

Not well. I have not been doing well at all. I'm alive, but everything, everything is running out. Money, health, patience, the will to keep going, reasons for getting out of bed, etc.

They don't ask because they don't want to hear it, because that would mean feeling sad or guilty.
Yes!  Everyone asks how my husband is, but rarely me.  I must be like a duck, paddling away where people don't see.

It's bittersweet.
My husband has end stage renal disease (kidney fauilure) I work 2 jobs, do all the cooking & cleaning, take care of the kid & pets, and provide all medical physical and emotional support needed for him..any call, text, or concern I ever get is in regards to him, and me and my young child often get placed on the back burner. It's so lonely, and it's so much work. I feel you, sometimes I wish someone would bring a meal, offer a ride, or even ask how we are coping.
People don't want to hear how we are doing.  I mean  not the real answer, which is some variation of, "exhausted, sad, and angry."  All they want to hear us say is that "we're good."  Because if we give the real answer, they don't know what to do.  So they avoid asking the question at all because they don't want to risk it.  

I like to think of it as a game of conversational chicken.
They don’t ask because they don’t really want to know the answer. I’ve been caring for my husband for 20 years. He was diagnosed with MS at 29. Now that my parents, aunts/uncles, cousins are all getting older and some are becoming caretakers, they all bent to me about how difficult it is. I just shrug and walk away
I’m sorry your situation has been so stressful for so long. It sounds like you are not able to get nearly enough time to tend to your own needs. Burnout is real! Have you explored what social services resources may be available to help you? I hope you can find some support in this community, and also get yourself some physical support at home so you can rest and reset.
*internet hug to OP 🤗
You’re not selfish.  I know exactly what you’re talking about
Social worker here… I always make it a point to sincerely check in with my caregivers. You guys are why I’m a social worker. What you do is hard. Very hard. You deserve support. You deserve to be seen and heard. Thank you for the love and care you give to your loved ones, the sacrifices, the small kindnesses no one will ever know about. I know it’s a lonely battle. If you’re reading this… keep reaching out and finding support. You aren’t meant to do this alone.
YYYYYYYYESSSSSSSSSSS TTTTTHHHHIIIISSSSSSS!!!!
Well, then, I suggest you complain a little bit more.

Actually I get asked often how I am doing.
I’m in year six and occasionally, out of politeness, I may be asked but always the person has no intellectual capacity to understand the why I say.
Therefore I speak to no one. And it will be the death of me🤦
You just described my family.   Normally I'm ok with taking care of my mom but lately I'm overwhelmed.   I asked my brother for help...our relationship isn't really good right now.  We got into another argument and I told him I didn't want to fight any more,  I went in for a hug and he put his fist up.  I've been crying off and on since.  I wish he would have hit me so I could have pressed charges.
Same.  I feel you 110%.  

I get alot of unsolicited advice about how we should be doing things.  Asking about how my dad is.  How are my sisters and their families.  

No one ever says "hey you holding it together, girl?  You need a hug?"   

I'm a caregiver for 23 years due to being a nurse. I was burnt out on caregiving mentally, emotionally and physically before this.  

If you ever need someone to chat, I'm around.
Commenting here again (or did i just lurk? Dunno..)
My oldest cousin visited yesterday for a few hours and told me, "Be patient and stay strong". Then proceed to talk to my mom the whole time. No, "How are you holding up?"/"How are you?" Um, okay. I'll just be exhausted out of sight, nbd
Right, take care of yourself in all that free time available!! /s

Most “free” time is devoted to neglected housework or sleep
[deleted]
Usually the suggestions are either impossible (get away somewhere) or won't help (oh, find a hobby and do it at home).
It's beyond bittersweet to read things like this.  It's "nice" to know that it happens to others as well, but it absolutely sucks that it happens at all.  Like, I've never empathized so much with another group of people, and it's got me crying because I hate that we all go through this.

But, we do it for the ones we love.  You're doing it for your dad, I'm doing it for my mom.  They need our help and that's the thing I focus on.

I hope the best for you and your dad.
That sounds horrible.  To top it off, many visits come without much warning (I’ll be there in 10 minutes to drop this food etc) while my mother is in one of her rare sit and relax moments.  The visit disrupts that and back to square one
Boy, do I hear that. I'm so sorry.
/hugs I'm sorry to hear that you're dealing with a shitty family. I have people that \*want\* to help but are hobbled by their self-set limitations ("oh, but I don't know to do if he had a seizure! I don't know how to deal with XYZ of his care regimen") 

My response: dudes, make an offer. Follow up on that offer. I need time away from my (disabled) husband and (ADHD and needy) kid, I don't care how you split that crap up, I just need time OUT and AWAY for the sake of my freaking sanity, the more y'all step up NOW the longer I can hold on during the day-to-day crap that comes with the territory. 

I honestly feel that once people get themselves immersed in the the nitty-gritty of caregiving there's two reactions: 1) Oh the HELL no, noping out of this and 2) Holy crap, you deal with this every day, I can take a turn. 

I am a HUGE advocate for making the absentee siblings/family members take the patient out for a meal/etc. They roll their eyes when I hand them the "oh crap" bag and run through the various emergency protocols (bowel issues, urinary issues, loopy behavior (multiple causes) but flip the HOLY F OUT when stuff happens and they call/text me...
It is hard when family gets more appreciation and respect, while giving little to none to you.  I understand. I wish I could offer something more than "I see you and hear you"
I can see that.  People (family) calling less and less.  Understandable since it’s difficult for her to hold a conversation if she even understands and answers appropriately at all. 

Interaction with my friends is mostly through group text where nothing of substance is discussed just jokes etc.  I don’t mind that it’s an escape, but they rarely text me personally to even ask how I’m doing
Getting out of bed, ugh.  If I’m not woken up by her getting up 1st (where I have no choice but to immediately get up too and check the situation), have to force myself to get up and start yet another day.  Think I could sleep for 2 days if allowed the time
1-800-273-8255

They are there to help.  You are loved, know that.

If you need to vent, message me.  I won't respond if you don't want me to, if you just need to let it out.

You are loved.
Exactly!! “How was she today?”  My answer is always “the usual”

Why not ask how MY day was lol
I'm sorry.
That sounds so difficult.  Could not imagine dealing with children on top of it all.  God bless you!
/hugs I'm sorry that you're not getting help. I am fortunate I at least have morons that accept direction when prodded ("I have a schedule conflict and he needs to be at appointment X at 11:30 AM where I'm in meetings until 12 N" "Oh, so I need to pick him up?" ( /I do mental happydance)  "That would be awesome, thank you!"
I TOTALLY give them the honest-if-not-elaborate answer.  "My life sucks flaming donkey balls because <situation X>" answers the question in glorious detail and get people off your ass. :)
No offense meant, because you sound like a lovely person, but I'm curious...what social worker is assigned to caregivers? 

Most of us don't have a social worker. Probably because we are in the USA?

Kaiser had one social worker and he wouldn't even talk to us, despite repeated requests for assistance in navigating my husband's cancer. He literally hid from us and never returned calls. Not once.

We as caregivers are brutally ignored by the medical community. I have even faced outright hostility and dismissive behavior by trying to engage my husband's medical staff.  

No family/ friend support is just the icing on the cake. It's a complete failure of the system.
Complain to who? There is simply no one there to listen, that's why we say we are so lonely.
When I do vent it’s usually met with “ did you try this, could you do that” etc for solutions.  There are no solutions just have to deal with what comes and adapt if those changes become permanent...which is only apparent a month or so later
Yep. In my case the patient is not a great person, so I don't expect offers. But please don't add that to my to do list
My favorite is when my sisters point out "you get time away".  When I am at home after work during the week. By the time I get done between 5-8pm, I'm usually too exhausted to do much more than watch a TV show, make a sandwich and go to bed.  It isn't restful and it doesn't reduce my stress.  I basically pass a few hours in quiet.
I think it's all too common. Nearly every caregiver I've spoken with can relate to this kind of thinking by the majority of family members. I just think there is a casual disregard and lack of appreciation for those in our roles. I think it's just easier for other family members to "look away" and not face up to the decline of their loved ones and the immense amount of care and support that they are requiring.

Plus, there seems to be this thinking that they are busy with their own lives and can't be bothered to take care of anyone else. And, it doesn't help that the person themselves (my Dad, for instance) -- still clinging desperately to their sense of identity and independence -- often claims that the care is unneeded thus minimizing and trivializing the work we do.

It's a vicious little cycle. The individual doesn't want to believe they are "that bad" and are still trying to cling to a false sense of independence. The family doesn't want to believe that their family member is really in serious decline (and doesn't really want to be bothered to help anyway). The caregiver is stuck in the middle telling both the individual and the family members things they don't want to hear. Strangely enough, we are oftentimes the common enemy.
That's an awesome way to look at it. Get them involved and see if that helps their understanding. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to get even a nibble of interest from anyone to take a day or even an afternoon here or there. And, at some point, I don't think I should have to ask over and over -- they should be offering. He is their father too. It's crazy.

A close friend suggested to me the other day that perhaps my siblings were struggling so much emotionally with the issue that their way of dealing with my Dad's decline is to stay away because it's "just too hard for them". They further suggested that I should have more compassion for their situation. 

I told them "First, I know my siblings and they aren't struggling one bit once they walk out that door. They're wholly focused on their own lives without concern. Second, just for the sake of argument, let's say you were right and their way of handling the issue is to hide from it. Well, that is a luxury that they are enjoying at the expense of myself and our Father so I still have very little sympathy for their 'plight'."

Sorry. Feeling a little bitter and resentful at the moment.
I use the Steven King quote: "I'm busier than a one-legged man in an ass-kicking contest."

This often gets good reactions. :)
I work in hospice.
Depending on your location and situation, there are community resources available. Disease or age specific organizations can help you find what you might need. Will it ever be enough, no. You have to advocate for yourself on top of everything else. I hear your dismay and frustration. 

You can also hire a social worker to help you connect with resources. It might be worth looking into if you are feeling overwhelmed and burned out.
Extended family, neighbors, friends, doctors who see your mother, your therapist (what? you don't have one?), etc.
Ah yes, the suggestions might come from genuine want to help but it's almost always irrelevant, impractical, or not applicable at all because the people who offered it has never been in our shoes. They simply don't get it. 

One of the most memorable is about a job. I'm working from home on project basis, and one of my closest friend told me that a position opens up in her company. She probably thinks that a more "stable" job will help me financially, but it's an office job (hybrid at best), which means i have to hire two caregivers or one caregiver with much higher rate. She also didn't take account that the job's pay is way lower than the caregiver(s) wage, not to mention the job-related expenses. If i take the job i'll be more stressed out and bleed out money even faster. On bad days when i remember that offer i always thought, "Offering to stab me will save more time"
I find that when you feel like nobody cares, it’s up to you to check on yourself. When you are alone in the trenches, and feel like nobody cares or sees, because in that moment it is true. You are alone. You are doing a lot. You are tired. You are frustrated. 

You had it right, the key word is adapt. And that’s what I’m constantly doing after I expel my negative energy (crying, working out, venting (to myself if no one avail), shower etc.  Forcing yourself to expand the lens, and pull yourself out of that vacuum, adapt and carry on.
I hear the same! I get 2-3 weeks between visits (then he's here 2-3 weeks) and I'm supposed to be fine. I usually lay in bed for an extra hour or so before sleeping just to get a moment.
I want to shower a thousand awards on you and how you summed this up. Having people that \*need\* caregiving with family that can't/don't accept that need for caregiving is incredibly frustrating. 

Context: I'm married to a man who suffered a massive traumatic brain injury (TBI) in a car accident in 2019. He's home from inpatient care and functional, for a big delta of 'functional', as long as you can walk him through anything more complicated than a 2-step process, he's golden. Otherwise there's cussing and yells for me to mediate the whole \*thing, whatever caused the meltdown. 

YES, I love him and STILL love him and it fucking KILLS me to see the brilliant, funny, intelligent (PhD-educated) man I married unable to follow the instructions on a macaroni-and-cheese box.

Give him 1:1 time doing things he likes, such as working puzzles or listening to music or goofy MPR shows. He will flat-out love it. 

And while he's enjoying that, I can go grocery shopping in peace. Or (mirable dictu) do something like get a pedicure or a massage in peace.
Her doctor?Lol...I was once told a nicely "I can çall DHS"Spare me.
Are you joking? We had to move four hours away from home to be near a major hospital that can treat my son.  It’s been a year and he’s been hospitalized thirteen times.  There is no one around here I know, nor do i have time to make friends and my house has a sick patient in it so I can’t entertain.  Patient can’t be left alone, no respite. Grocery store is it for a few minutes of peace every couple of days. I’m tired, exhausted. You’re thinking all cases are the same with everyone having the support they need is ridiculous. Trolling? You got me.
I'm sorry.  I hope you are able to find some respite at some point.
That sounds like a very difficult situation that you're dealing with. But, we love the people we care for and want the best for them so we continue on. It's frustrating for me when I think about how uninvolved and indifferent my family members have been so ... it's honestly best if I don't think about it, you know? Because, when I think about it, I tend to get kind of angry and resentful and that isn't good for anyone. Ultimately, I know that I'm doing the right thing and will be able to look back proudly on my behavior years from now. That's important to me. Thanks for the kind words and good luck to you.
Your hospital has a social worker (they all do).  Before your son is discharged, you confer with social worker on respite, periodic checkins on the caregiver, things like that.  "I am burned out.  Is there anything that can help me?" is a way to get started.  It might be a support group, depending on your circumstances it might even be an online support group (Zoom type).  Never underestimate the power of a support group.  There are caregiver support groups and diagnosis support groups, and both are worthwhile.

One thing's for sure - if you don't reach out, nobody's gonna reach out to you - they're going to assume "Oh, they seem to be coping pretty well."  And so I say again:  COMPLAIN.
Oh I've been there, and I've learned a few skills.  I speak up and am the stronger for it.
