No. Dementia robs us of the ability to make sense of things like notes from ourselves. 

I love that film, but Leonard was choosing to forget that he’d killed his wife and knew he couldn’t remember the past. With dementia, you don’t know you have it. 

As Beaudelaire writes in The Generous Gamester, and Verbal Kint reiterates in The Usual Suspects, the greatest trick the devil ever played was convincing us he didn’t exist. That’s dementia.

Edited to add: I have experience with Alzheimer’s and vascular dementia only, and it’s anecdotal. I’m not a doctor.
It doesn't really work, no.

Dementia doesn't just affect short term memory. It affects working memory, executive function, the ability to plan and reason, the ability to read and write, and everything in between. We tried to make calendars/memos/notebooks work for my mom, but gave up quickly. 

Early on, she could write things down. But she wouldn't REMEMBER that she had written them down. She wouldn't remember to reference her notebook/calendar. And the notebook/calendars just because new things for her to misplace! She filled dozens of notebooks/calendars, never able to remember that these tools didn't actually help her or that she would inevitably lose her new notebook in a matter of days.

As her dementia progressed, she lost the ability to read and write, and lost all sense of time. It's no help to her to have a memo that says that her niece's baby shower is on April 2nd, because she doesn't know what day it is today, how far away 'April 2nd' is, or what she will need to do plan for the shower before that date. 

You can't remember what you can't remember. You can't remind yourself of little details like names/dates/etc. when the whole foundation of memory has eroded. So, unfortunately, this method doesn't help.
I have bought so many notebooks for my mom because she used to be a pharmacist and was methodical so it made sense for her to want to write stuff down...as she got worse she'd kind of remember and they would get partially used and forgotten. I ended up hiding them so she doesn't get confused. 

The only things I keep are her puzzle books because I can show her she completed them. She feels proud of herself seeing that stuff, so I'd rather her be happy than confused about some note she wrote to herself.
In our case, she can't write anymore (vascular dementia). I think she can still read some but writing is too difficult. I know some people use big white boards with things written on them. Date, day of the week, who is the current caregiver in the home. We haven't tried that because at this point someone is always with her.
My mother would write her pulse down  sometimes up to ten times daily. But with dementia activities one obsesses on changes. 

My father (vascular d) wrote stories however that stopped. One thing he did until he was hospitalized was drive his side-by-side Kawasaki mule all over our rural ranch.
It works during a brief window while the dementia is still very mild. But more for specific scenarios ('turn off lights' taped to the inside of the car door) than for general stuff like calendar notes/'you have dementia'.
Sadly no.  My grandmother writes *everything* down in her daytimer and will read and reread it constantly.  I mean, it is good for up to a point... it reminders her of when she has things scheduled to do and tells her when she did things in the past, but... well, sometimes she will read and re-read everything that happened that month aloud to us, over and over again, many multiple times within the space of an hour or so.  She can't remember what she's read just minutes before.
In the first couple years after his Alzheimer’s diagnosis, my dad could keep track of things to a pretty good degree by using post-it notes and keeping a small notebook in his shirt pocket.  But, as the disease progressed, as mentioned by others, the ability to remember to refer to the written reminders, or to understand what the reminder even meant, and eventually to even really write - all that goes away.
When my husband was first diagnosed he recorded a couple videos to himself. One was about driving ( you really can’t drive anymore. I know you think you can but you can’t endanger innocent families on the road…etc) and the other was a “listen to your wife” ( this is your wife…you love her and she loves you. She’s looking out for you and if she’s trying to do something, it’s because it’s to keep you safe and healthy so dont give her a hard time. ) 

Those are the only things that have actually worked. I’ve had to play those videos back to him a couple times and each time it kind of took the wind out of his sails and calmed him down and he became more reasonable.  

Things he wrote down mean nothing. He will read the same thing over and over and it doesn’t get it in.
My dad can’t really write notes for himself, but he has a calendar diary where we write his appointments and plans in and he checks it every day; it really helps him feel like he isn’t losing control. He also responds to written instructions as he obviously can’t remember them, so we have written notes by the phone, etc to help him use them. At some point I’m sure he won’t be able to read them or take them in, but for now it’s helping
My mom does this. Mostly people's numbers and times of events. She's also obsessed with her digital date and time clock. Not sure how long her ability to write will last. It seems to be deteriorating quiet fast.
Mom doesn't write notes but I sometimes do!

Early on I got her a dry erase board that I would put notes on. Say I stopped by and she was sleeping so I'd leave out her meds and write a note to take them.  Or if I wasn't going to stop by until later in the day I'd write 'gmmiller is at sew day with her friends, she will be here at 4pm'.

She is now stage 5/6, very advanced vascular dementia.   I still have a dry erase board in her room at the home.  Sometimes she gets on a kick about sometihing - like going home. So I write "This is your home" or "This is a nice place" or whatever.  She will walk over to it and read it 20 times a day.  

Most of the time I write silly things.  One of my favorites is 'I’m retired, but I work part-time as a pain in the ass.' Of course this fits her old sense of humor.
Momento??? Yikes. And it probably depends on the stage. 

I think for dad, probable alzeimers, mid stage, it worked for awhile for simple, immediate things. For example, mom would put a big note on the refrigerator "No breakfast today! Blood Test" and that worked a few times. 

He still carries around a little notepad in his front pocket.  He can't really use it any longer but he still likes to have it. A few days ago he sidled up to me with his conspiratorial look as though he was going to impart some important wisdom. He handed me a note with my name on it. Maybe he was worried I forgot my name as he always does? Even with cognitive decline, he's so thoughtful. ❤ 😉

We do still keep a paper calendar with appointments in front of the Dementia clock and he reads it several times a day. He still understands enough to know there is or isn't something on the calendar that day.
For awhile we had post it notes all over the place!  The husband would write something down he wanted to remember then next moment look at the note and not have a clue what it meant or would post it somewhere and forget it.  Notes don't work, they don't have the ability to track what they are doing and with the short term memory loss it is all meaningless to them.
The momento thing won’t work but do it anyway because it’s worth a shot. I’m a home care nurse and it’s fascinating to see how each individual copes, so you do you.
Beautiful answer. Thank you.
Vascular dementia is so strange - they can do some things perfectly normally, and then sometimes they just enter an alternate reality. I find it to be the hardest because of the normal moments (mother has advanced Alzheimer’s; FIL, vascular dementia).
That’s sad. :( At least she sounds like she’s having fun though. Sorry you have to put up with it.
That’s a scary thought...
That video idea is actually really smart. I’m glad it worked to some extent.
Haha! That’s so cute!
Thank you!
