I am with a very similar couple and situation. Next time I work with the couple I'm working with I'm planning on pulling him aside and telling him that I know it might feel wrong to lie to her that it is probably better for her to say the cars don't work (they really dont!) and he's going to fix them tomorrow when he feels better.  Try to answer her first so he doesn't have to, although that might not work. I'm sorry you're dealing with this situation.
Wow, I have this same problem with handling my 3-yr old Granddaughter and her older 7 yr old
Brother stirring the pot just to see her get upset.

He gets a firm stern look and I turn my attention to the injured individual.
If you’ve got a supervisor, this is a really good thing to discuss with them because unfortunately this is domestic abuse. Old age, a long marriage, a wife
with dementia who is exhausting to care for? Zero excuse for his behaviour.

‘She’s my wife’. ‘This is none of your business’. ‘I know her better than you.’ ‘She’s always had this side to her.’  Sound like him at all??
Maybe his arrogance/lack of empathy/not being able to modify his behavior is a sign of dementia too?  Is there anything good about them still being together; like would he be better off in an independent living situation and her in a more controlled environment?
It's not always possible, they spend the day sitting next to each other watching TV and I'm often in another room cleaning or cooking. It's also hard because of his own memory issues, I think he forgets what I've told him to do in the moment. I will recommend more specifically trying some white lies next time, thank you. I hope things go well for you too!
Nothing like that. I may have overdramatized things out of my own frustration. Like I said he has some minor cognitive issues as well. He doesn't oppose me when I correct him but in the moment I get the sense that he genuinely doesn't know what else to do. I don't deny that it's harmful and I will talk to supervisors but jumping to calling something abuse based on two paragraphs of information seems like a leap.
