Going through exactly this right now. I need to establish rep payee to sign my dad up for medicare in the next month (his diagnosis was poorly timed there). POA means nothing to SSA, they don't even want to see it. Had to go through a nightmare of calls to get to people who gave me the steps, and am now waiting to see if it worked.

Also pisses me off that POA isn't good enough for some financial institutions. I had to get notarized letters of incapacitation and shit to gain access to his assets to pay for care. This took over a month in some cases! Just over this crap.

For those who have POA, don't assume it won't be a circus to actually be able to use it.
I'm rep payee for my parent. It's super annoying, and as you say POA isn't enough. Neither is guardianship. You have to specifically go through a process with the Social Security administration that in my case resulted in the need for a recent statement from a doctor that my parent is incapacitated because the guardianship documentation was not recent enough. You also have to answer questions demonstrating that you're the best person to do it and you have to provide documentation.  You also have to sign stuff that says you'll follow all their rules about how you can use the funds on the person's behalf (the managing part). You probably need a new bank account for the person to accept the funds, which you are required to set up direct deposit for, and you have to do a yearly accounting for what you did with the funds. Fun, huh?
Hmmm, we haven't run into this. We just added my wife and I to my mom's bank account. So between our POA and being on her account with our own cards, we've been able to handle everything.
We are going through this now. My grandmother was the rep payee for my uncle for years. She just had his SSDI sent to his checking account, never filed reports or anything. Now SSA just sent a letter saying that since she died, they won't send him money until a new one is identified.
Yes I have been rep.payee 15 yrs no issues
sorry you’re going through all that. hope it’s settled!
and you know i didn’t even know about this until i started working for an agency that is a rep payee for other people.  how much else is out there that we don’t know about? sheesh.
aw geez. good luck. that sucks.
All of this! I am rep payee for my mom. I had to go to SS, fill out an insane amount of paperwork, and set up a special bank account just for the money. Every year you fill out audit paperwork with the IRS to make sure you are not mismanaging funds. I keep every single receipt for every single thing I buy with the money. It’s really tedious, but I understand why because so many try to scam the system.
