If they really have enough money you could see about an assisted living facility. If not see if their medical insurance has in home health care assistance.  Did either parent serve in the US military? The veterans administration has resources as well.  I finally had to sell my mom's house and get her into assisted living due to dementia fortunately with social security, the money from the house in an investment she makes enough money to pay for her keep in the assisted living facility which is pretty nice she has a little one bedroom apartment with a living room and a kitchenette and all meals provided.  I'm sorry you're alone in this it's tough.
I'm not the caregiver, but I might have some suggestions.  My mother (92) had to go into a nursing home 3 months ago, after breaking an ankle.  Never made enough progress to return home.  My mother also never had a plan. She does own her home.  You're in a very tough spot,  and you say you're "expected" to step in.  (perhaps by relatives?).  Your parents lack of planning shouldn't equate to "daughter must now take care of us."   Here are some thoughts.

 Your father sounds as if he is  way beyond being able to be in Assisted Living (in my opinion).  Because he cannot take care of his daily functions .  And here, Assisted Living  costs $3500-$4000/ month, minimum.  Do they have that kind of money?   At least the parent with dementia -- he/she belongs in a managed care facility (nursing home).  If they cannot pay for it, you or a nursing home rep. can apply for medicaid for them.  It's not an easy process,  start saving 6 months of paperwork (bank statements, insurance statements),  and read online.  But with Medicaid, the person in managed care has to provide all of their income to the facility each month (except for $60), and then if they own a home, a lien will be placed against their home for the amount that Medicaid pays.  But they are then in managed care.   OP,  YOU are not managed care -- please don't even think of continuing to take this on yourself.    (regardless of what relatives may think).  

Before my Mother went to the nursing home,  when she was over-dosing on her meds,  I called Adult Protective Services and made a report.  They have to come out and do an assessment (and here, it's within about a week ).  Consider doing this.  When a case worker comes for evaluation of the home situation,   be there.  (I could not tell if you live there all the time).  But tell them that there is no full-time caregiver, and they will assess if your Mother is able to be the caregiver. They may set up home services to help him.  (but  NOT if you are a full- or part-time caregiver).  If your parents don't have the funds to pay,  then apply for Medicaid.  (Nursing home in my area is $5,500 a month).      Good luck, OP.    Don't feel bad for backing away from this, and calling the State to step in.  you have your own life.
If they have plenty of money, call A Place For Mom and put them in the nicest accommodations you can find, and then stop worrying about it.  And don't you dare feel any guilt!
You may have to discuss with a lawyer about getting guardianship of your parents. 

Kaiser often has a group that can give ideas on local assisted living, etc. 

I contacted A Place for Mom but found them to be more of a marketing service than a helpful agency. Research on your own for local assisted living facilities may also be part of your journey.
Food poisoning = to the ER.  Get a local home care agency to help with cleaning, hygiene, and meals while you talk with their doctor and an estate planning attorney.  Message me if you need more help.
I (44 single mom/only child) was in your shoes for the past few years. My parents had always had their shit together, and as they got older and my mom's Alzheimers appeared and progressed, and then my dad's cancer reappeared, my dad kept insisting that he had everything under control and for me not to worry about them. But I saw them disconnecting from their strong support network, and I did worry, and it turned out I was right to worry, because eventually it became obvious that they needed help, and I found out the hard way that they'd set me up to be the only person they'd actually accept any help from. My aunt and I forcibly bathed my mom once a week for months because my dad was in too much denial to see that she was a mess. I tried Adult Protective Services, and it wasn't as helpful as I expected, but at least my reports left a paper trail. I tried hiring a home care service to come in a few times a week to cook and clean and help with babysitting my mom while I drove my dad to chemo and such, but he wouldn't accept the help and kept sending the aides home when they showed up. He started showing signs of dementia but his primary doctor kept blowing off my concerns. 

My mom ended up in a nursing home after a neglected UTI landed her in the hospital and someone besides me noticed that it wasn't safe for her to go back home. I ended up having to quit my job to be able to drive my dad to 2 weeks of daily radiation appointments, and I was preparing myself to sell my own house and move in with them to keep him from derailing when, despite my best efforts, COVID finally landed *him* in the hospital, and someone besides me realized that it wouldn't be safe for *him* to live on his own anymore, so I managed to get the hospital to discharge him to the place I'd found for my mom, so they could safely be together. I'm finally on the verge of activating my POA - they had each other listed as primary and me as secondary, and my dad refused to change it even after my mom didn't recognize me anymore and was wandering around the house topless with visible poop in her pants. It's been a mess. My anxiety has been through the roof and it feels like my body is now about to turn on me from all the stress. Yes, there are some resources, but they can be hard to access and a lot of those services are voluntary, so my paranoid, stubborn dad wouldn't agree to any of the ones available where we live - veterans' benefits, adult day care, etc. He made everything *so much harder* than it had to be, and it's taken ages for me to get to a point where I can even begin to untangle the messes they made of their house and their finances. Luckily they saved religiously for retirement and there's money to pay for them to both live in the nursing home, but holy shit is that expensive, and I'm basically choosing to spend what might have otherwise been a nice inheritance for me and my child rather than let the weight of their needs drag me down any further. 

I hope you find what you need to save yourself. The whole elder care system sucks for adult children. Big, big hugs.
There is a a wide range of care services you can get. 

usually the agencies provide aides in pre-scheduled 6-8 hour shifts. They don’t tend to work on emergencies. If you find someone on a website such as Care.com, some independent workers there have arrangements to come for emergencies. If you have the extra bedrooms and money is no object, I would try to get a live-in aide so that you have help for emergencies and you have an extra pair of hands to plan and prevent emergencies.

Some are very proactive and intuitive and will figure out what needs to be done and just do it. Some will basically do whatever you tell them but not on their own (sometimes I think they are afraid of doing something wrong?). It can take a little trial and error to find the right match and for them to get used to what they should do.  I would try to explain with you need help with in the initial messages to potential workers. 

I would try to hire someone to help you with the personal care, cleaning, and de-hoarding as well. Can you get the parents into Adult Day Care? then while they are gone during the day, you can rest and do some de-hoarding. It is absolutely crucial to remove stuff from the floors because elderly people don’t just bounce back from broken bones, and physical trauma makes dementia worse. 

PS you might find that your parents are actually nicer to people who aren’t you lol
I would be looking ASAP to get your dad in a memory care facility. Those people can move surprisingly fast to get people in the facility if they have room. (Possibly even transporting your father there today.) Your mom may be able to recover if her only real problem is food poisoning. 

I know how overwhelming it is. You’re not alone although I know it feels like you’re the only person on earth right now.
In the morning just try to hire a housekeeping service ASAP; they will probably be faster than you at cleaning body fluids which are slipping hazards, while you tend the the parents directly
May I  ask how bad is the hoarding because that could be a big issue. Best of luck
Ask to be paid to help. The going rate is $30/hour, but even getting minimum wage will help you. We were using a service called Paychex. They do all the withholding and taxes and reports. If you do this, try and set it up in both their names or as an either/or so if one dies you don’t have to close the account and open a new one. Or do it in the name of the parent you think will survive the longest.

Once you’re getting paid and have some down time, start de-cluttering. Ask them if you can sell their stuff if you’re so inclined to earn a little extra money selling their stuff online. It will be win win win: they get a cleaner house, people online get stuff they need and you get some money. Oh- it also probably will help clear out trip hazards, too. 

I know how much this sucks. I’ve been taking care of my two elderly parents alone since my mom was hit by a car in January 2020. Dad passed away in February. It sucks, even though I love them. Getting paid helps it suck less.
that's almost exactly what the situation is here, especially the personality conflict (just with my mom and dad swapped). Thanks a lot for the support.. I finally got some sleep after what i hadnt realized was 48+ hours without, but im going to make sure I don't slack off on doing things  to make my part in this survivable.

thanks again, it really helped to hear that
Came here to say some agencies can help if you call them. I would be trying for insurance to cover though.

Also here in MO they (nursing homes) can take home to pay fir services.  Assets are best in trust but that leads to a host of other unwelcome issues. Such as transferring something 2 tears before getting certain public funding assistance (even well to do people can) will disqualify. 

Probably best to go in for lawyer consult also.
I'm glad you got some rest!! Parenting your own parents is absolutely exhausting when they become like giant toddlers running around with car keys and phones and credit cards. If there's anything I've learned from this, it's that prioritizing my own self-care is critical, and I mean like the most basic forms of it, like getting enough sleep, and remembering to eat. It's easy to let those things slide when you're constantly focused on meeting your parents' needs, but burning yourself out doesn't help anyone, so please be gentle with yourself!!!
Indeed. u/gaplant-tr5 read this, see the adult child caregiver exemption for transferring home ownership. Sounds like you have lived in the home and kept them out of nursing homes for a long time so best to get this documented.

[https://www.medicaidplanningassistance.org/can-medicaid-take-my-home/](https://www.medicaidplanningassistance.org/can-medicaid-take-my-home/)
