Plan a visit with them. Prepare for a very difficult but necessary conversation about BOTH of their end-of-life care. tell your mom in advance you plan to discuss this during your visit and ask if she can dig up a copy of her will if she has one, and if she would be willing to “get some things squared away” with you “just in case”. Or if you dont think she’d take it well, dont mention it but it may make it easier if she is prepared as well for the discussion. 

Ask her when she would like help caring for your father. not *if* but *when*. at what point will she not want to be his only caretaker? when he starts to wander out of the house? when he nearly has (or does have) a bad accident in the kitchen? discuss finances available for that care. maybe there is a neighbor or a friend that can stop in for a couple hours a day to watch your dad and do a couple of chores for her, and care could ramp up from there as he progresses. 

Discuss their wills and ensure they have everything they want in the way they want it. Discuss medical proxy, and possibly be prepared to draw up forms to make you the primary person to make decisions on your mother’s behalf in an emergency, rather than your father. 

Discuss what your mother would like the later years of her life to look like. this may also soften her up to the idea of caregivers if she is against them...thinking about her future as a full time caregiver 5+ years down the road. 

While you’re there, check their house for hazards. People with Alzheimers do better in bright light, especially in the winter when the sun sets so early; ensure they have a lot of good light in their house. it also helps prevent falls and injuries since depth perception can go with alzheimers as well. discourage the use of thick area rugs that have edges that can be tripped over, as well as any other trip hazards. offer to install a bar or a chair in their shower if they need that. just do some general things so you know theyre a *little* bit safer on their own. 

I’m sorry you’re going through this, and it might be hard to have those conversations with your mom but its the only way you can sleep soundly knowing you tried your best to get them to be safe short of uprooting your whole life and moving in with them.
I'm in a very similar situation.... my step mother's drinking causes me massive anxiety as well knowing that she's my father's caretaker. I wish I had helpful advice.  Unfortunately I'm looking for some advice as well as this situation is a train wreck coming. I feel your pain.
That’s a double whammy. I don’t know how to approach the drinking because people get super defensive when approached about that. But maybe if you get your mom into some support groups (even informal support groups) for people living with family with dementia she may start accepting his diagnosis and decline and perhaps get motivated to get herself together so she can be a better support for her hubby.

The Alzheimer’s Association is a good resource for formal support groups. For something more informal you could try an online program- this is an NIA funded movement program that includes some group interactions https://togetherseniorhealth.com/current-research-study-rp
Thank you. This is very helpful. They are both very smart people, and in a better time they would have had this all squared away to the point where we would not have to even ask. I love the idea of asking "when" she wants help. Is there anything I would need in terms of paperwork or things to do \*now\* other than wills and medical proxy? Thank you again this is invaluable.
Going to PM you
Unfortunately she will be continuing to drink. She is a late-stage/end-stage alcoholic. She might very well go to groups, but it won't change the fact that she can't care for him, ultimately.
I cant really think of much other than getting a copy of her will and medical proxy forms. perhaps discuss DNR forms for one or both of them? I dont think you should confront or acknowledge your concerns with your mothers drinking during this visit other than to ask her how shes feeling and if she feels like she wants help. the rest of what needs to be discussed will be mentally taxing enough, for both of you. 

if she says she is ready for a caregiver to help her with your dad NOW, you can help her post online to find someone, or reach out to people she knows who may be willing to help. standard in most places for good care is $20/hour. indeed, care.com and even craigslist are good places to start looking for care. if it turns out that its not financially viable, you can research some options for getting government assistance for her.
Durable POA or some places it might be called "legal POA" or "financial POA."  This will be useful too.
After many rehabs and programs and twenty years we've pretty much had to accept the drinking - any conversations with her will be about how this all happens while she's drinking. I don't think she'd object to that. It's a terrible disease but she's a good person and wants what is best for my dad, fortunately!!!

Thanks for the point on DNRs, I will add that to my list! And thank you again for the thoughts and help.
glad to offer a small bit of help
