I was going to suggest a fake one! 

We made fake credit cards and IDs for my grandma in law. She couldn't be trusted with anything real, but she wanted to have the familiarity of going through her purse everyday to make sure she still had all her own things, and just having the fake, laminated cards in there was comforting.
Do you think she has the ability to make travel arrangements on her own ?  If not, you could give it back to her but would I be worried about her losing it again. Then the cycle repeats of you having you to get her another one so she can get rid of it - again. 

There's these key chains for Iphones (airtags) that you can put with the document in a bag, so when she loses it again. You'll be able to find it in the house. Unless she does what my mother did with her legal documents, throw them all out. 

Until my mother's affairs are in order I'm holding on to her bank card for dear life, everyone once and awhile she demands to have it.  Give it to her, she then says "that' not my card" (it is) and throws it on the table. I tell her well next time we'll  go to the bank and get you a new one. This happens every week or so.
We made multiple fakes of my mother in laws bank cards and passport - she would demand them, then hide/lose them around her house. It’s a comfort and security issue, she is incapable of using them but a lifetime of habit makes having them really important to her. 

She is also obsessed with having money in her purse, which gets easier as her cognition declines as she used to complain that a twenty dollar note was ‘nothing’ but was much happier with 4 five dollar notes as it looked like more. 
Now we fill her purse with coins and she perceives that as a lot of money, and when she asks for money every day she is so delighted when we give her a whole handful of change which equals around a dollar!
We made my grandmother fake keys and cards. I would have made a fake passport if that’s what it took to make her happy. (She didn’t know how to drive and wouldn’t have known how to make travel plans so that wasn’t a concern.) 


Her just having the items gave her peace of mind and she moved on to obsessing about the next thing.
I noticed my dad carrying around a keyring populated with keys for cars he hadn't owned for years. Don't underestimate the comfort factor.....
How did you go about making the fake cards? We're in the US and my mom has a passport book, so I'm not sure it would help with that, but maybe eventually she'll care where her state ID is so it would be good to know. Thank you!
It's so frustrating isn't it? I can't tell her "I know you'll lose this within days".

At this point I don't think she's capable of traveling alone. She doesn't have a credit card so she can't book a flight online, and I would hope a travel agency would recognize that she's asking the same questions every minute and not sell her a ticket. She doesn't drive so she'd need someone to take her to the airport, and she really only has my sister and I.

I don't think there's much risk at all, but after mentioning it as an option my sister refuses to give her the passport. I'm grateful to have someone else involved in care but it makes decisions more difficult.
It's so important! So much else is gone, it's good to hold on to anything you can, even if it's not usable, it's still useful.
Can your LO determine a real passport from a fake? Might be as easy as photocopying one (or a few pages from it)  or making one up in a photoshop.
We just photocopied her original cards, changed some of the numbers on photoshop, printed and laminated them. They looked close enough so they fooled her, but someone more aware might need something closer to the original.
They sell prop items for drama, shows, parties. We got my mom fake money through Amazon prime when she was obsessed about making sure she had money on hand. I wouldn’t be surprised if you find fake passports and credit cards as well for prop purposes
Yeah it's a good idea to hang on to her documents if there's even the slightest risk of them disappearing.
Outside of his home, daddy would get antsy, he was out of his "safe zone". Short trips to the store or doctor were okay. We had to stop taking him to church, he would get antsy and want to get up and walk or try to leave
You just reminded me of the time mom was terrified of not having money because she thought someone was extorting her and was going to hurt my dad if she didn't pay them.

3 bucks calmed her right down, apparently a very cheap extortionist.
That's a great idea thank you!
My mom does that too. We try to get her out of the house from time to time. But she's in always a hurry to leave even when your doing things enjoyable like having a meal in a restaurant. Right when she's done she wants to leave, doesn't matter if you're done your meal or not.  We use to let her get up and wait outside, until the last time when we couldn't find her for 20 minutes. No more of that.
It’s such a shitty disease. My mom has flashbacks of escaping war and needing money to keep her family safe to escape. 😕
Our dad had dementia. We made up a set of keys for him and put them on a hook. When we took him out, he would grab his "keys". We also put five one dollar bills in his "wallet" and 10 pennies in his pocket. If we had him in a store, he would pull out his wallet to "pay".
That had to have been brutal, I am so sorry.
