If you have a local Senior Services Division or something similar, they may be able to share information about local agencies. My grandma goes to a Senior Day center. Of course it does cost money. But sometimes local libraries and churches offer senior services.
I'm sorry, I don't have any answers, I'm just commenting because I'm also interested and also on the east coast!
You may want to look into adult day care - they offer optional activities throughout the day for the elderly and usually have medical staff on hand in case help is needed. 

You usually get charged per day and they want you to pick up your loved one before closing time. They won't pick up or drop off, but it can be a regular thing where you drop her off while running errands in the morning.
Are you in the U.S?
Yup! I'm in CT and I had to Google adult day care to find some locally.  You can also ask your health insurance to help assist with finding a place or they might be able to cover it as well.  Goodluck!
Look up Elder Options in your area. Talk to them and see what services they can offer your Mom.
If you're in the US, you probably have a local Agency on Aging.  Give them a call - they have a ton of resources.  I know in our area they have adult day care centers where they can go and do all kinds of activities.  Ours will also provide transportation.

EDIT:  I see you are on the east coast - so yes, there should be a local agency on aging in your area.  They can help with a bunch of stuff...
my grandma used to go to what i called her “day care” during the day when she was still mobile and responding. she lives in a hella rural town so i’m assuming most places have treatment centers like that
Alzheimer’s Association is also a great resource.
Check around with prices. One local day center was $200 a day, but I found another for $86! Starting with one day a week to get her familiar with it, then I’ll be adding days until I go broke. It’s worth it because broke is better than crazy. I was having almost daily breakdowns and was exhausted. 

Dementia always just keeps getting worse. It never gets better. Find a local dementia support group. It’s the best resource for good information on how to take care of YOU and your loved one, and you’ll get support you didn’t realize you need.
Yes! East coast
