I just learned this morning that they are putting my father in hospice for his cancer. I also helped my wife deal with the loss of both of her parents.

That feeling? The void you feel sucking the energy and happiness out of the very air? Its grief. Its sadness. 

How to cope? Do whatever you have to. Lean on others. Push forward. Cry. Yell at the sky. ~~make sacrifices to the Dark Lord~~. Make inappropriate jokes.

There is no 'right' answer. You don't 'get over' this, you learn to dance around the holes that are left. 

Sending hugs.
My dad was basically sick all my life. He smoked, had heart disease, strokes, etc. Had his leg amputated at one point. Then, all of a sudden, one year in January he told us he was on hospice. He tried to play it off as "I'm not sick...it's just so I can get my meds cheaper." But you don't go on hospice to get meds. He ended up passing that March. I don't think it really hit me until I heard "hospice". I had seen him survive 3 major heart attacks, 1 major stroke, a leg amputation and more. Never thought he would die. We lived across the country from him but we went to visit him that February. I dealt with it by knowing that he would finally be at peace and no longer in pain. I hated seeing him wince in pain every time he moved. We're the kind of family who jokes a lot, so we all joked with him when we saw him and tried to keep it lighthearted, but we all broke down when we had to leave. In essence, everyone deals with it differently. Maybe it's a good time to try to show more compassion, spend more time with them, create good memories.
I'm glad you're in therapy.  That should help some.

I'm an old woman and have lost all my parents, grandparents, aunts and uncles.  I take things one day at a time.  My spouse will be leaving well before me, I think.  I wouldn't be surprised if he lasts less than a year.  

You get so you accept the limits on lifespan and don't rage against the inevitable.  None of us knows for sure when it will be our time to go.  DH will probably go first - but nobody knows for sure.

Don't cry because it ended; rejoice because it happened at all.
I was given news 2 years ago that my Mom was in Heart failure, 20% function basically.  Here we are, still today and she is up to around 35%.  Docs were able to add medications to help her heart function better.  The point is, we do not really know when the "Timer" will sound for any of us.   
Enjoy the time you are blessed with..  When that time is over, you will grieve and hopefully you will then laugh at the beautiful memories and love that will continue to live on.  
Continue your therapy, and find the best way to enjoy what you have TODAY.  Tomorrow is not promised to anyone.
We’re a few years behind….

3 years ago, one of my moms doctors said “most patients outlive their driving skills by 6 years”. That was the week my mom gave up her driving privileges and reluctantly vowed to stop driving.

I think about that day often. It’s hard, as someone who has spent so many years caring for her and seeing her in so many life stages.

For the last few years, been trying to help her tackle the bucket list she’ll never admit to having. Fun stuff. Seafood stuff. Travel stuff. But it is hard. There are days when I tell myself I lost my mom years ago (when her Alzheimer’s was first surfacing ) just to make myself feel better.
