Not sure about electrolyte water but for my mom, we give her coconut water if we think she is becoming dehydrated. It also has magnesium which is very good for the brain and the taste is good. Also remember to get the coconut water without any other additives. Hopefully that helps you!
I keep a lidded 28 oz handled cup of water with a straw near my LO at all times, easy since they aren’t very mobile.  If they haven’t drunk much water on their own I make sure to hand it to them for a drink every time I walk by. As already mentioned, coconut water is a great source of hydration.  Other liquids can count, I put a little extra almond milk in cereal, soup or broth for lunch (watch the sodium) and fruits/veggies with every meal and for snacks.
Yes on Gatorade, Powerade, jugged sweet tea, juice, sprite, all those things. 

My grandmother will not drink water and only wants to eat things that are sweet. At this point it is such a battle I don’t really care about the sugar content. If she will drink the sugar drinks that’s better than nothing. 

We also do boost drink (the ones with extra protein) because she doesn’t like to eat much. 

I will also add that sometimes swallowing can become problematic and older folks with Alzheimer’s need a thickener added to liquids. You might ask or observe if swallowing is problematic and try a thickener. He may be avoiding liquids because swallowing is uncomfortable.
They are  not always easy to find, but very wide straws. You don't have to suck very hard and you get much more fluid per sip compare with no straws or normal ones.

Also, check out the ingredients and prices for cycling electrolyte tabs, they can be a lot cheaper than the powder ones sold in pharmacies for the same product.
My grandmother has to basically be badgered to drink. She hates water, so we use those flavored Mio drops that taste like sweet tea to make it seem like she's not drinking water. We also have her drink Boost (she doesn't eat enough either, so the calories and protein are good). She likes both of those. But getting her to drink is still like pulling teeth, so I set a timer on my phone to remind me to have her take a couple to a few big drinks every 20-30 minutes to make sure that she gets enough liquids in her. (I also have to remind her to go to the potty, otherwise she holds it for too long.)

And I've heard that nursing facilities who deal with dementia/Alzheimer's patients, will have jugs of water and they'll drop a Jolly Rancher candy into the jug to slightly tint the water, so that the patients will be more likely to drink it. Because this is a really common problem with patients who are dealing with forms of dementia. So you're definitely not alone in your struggle.
I second the Mio water drops. Lots of flavors with no added sugars or anything. I also used Ensure as a supplement when he couldn't get much down. Juices sometimes work too, apple and cranberry seemed to be his favorites. Anything liquid helps with hydration. Someone suggested more milk in cereal, but more liquid in all meals is the same. Good luck. Hope these help.
All the above suggestions are great! I would also add jello to the list-if he will eat it, give it to him a lot. I also half juice with water and freeze it in ice pop molds. My grandmother wouldn't drink anything, her DR recommend the jello and ice pops and it helped immensely.
What about freezing drinks in popsicle molds or using thick- it to make the liquids thicker and maybe use a spoon
My father (90) had the same issue, hated to drink water or even Gatorade. Bought some of those electrolyte packets to add to his water. He loved them! Drank two 16 oz bottles per day. Big improvement for him.  But…he ended up in the hospital with very high sodium levels.  Really messed him up for a while. So watch that. He was very confused and weak, I could barely get him in the car to take him to the hospital, he was that weak. We had to discontinue the additives.
Try something like biosteel or hydralyte for different flavors of electrolytes. If he'll swallow pills, there are electrolyte tablets that could help him make use of whatever he does drink.

Don't underestimate the power of ice cubes (if he likes cold drinks). They'll add up!

We have a "sip water" timer on the phone, and actually just bought an Alexa to help with reminders. 

If you're not avoiding sugar for medical reasons, don't be afraid to go sweet. A lot of dementia patients lose tastebuds so sweet things become increasingly appealing.

If he likes Boost or Ensure, those either full strength, diluted with water, or with lots of ice are good. Boost nom-creamy fruit flavored (aka juices with extra vitamins) with lots of ice have been really helpful for my mom.
Check out Jelly Drops :)
TLDR:  mom learned to drink water by starting with 8 oz bottles.

After her treatment started, my mom had a really hard time drinking anything We talked sev times about how important it was after her blockage, and she knew it was critical but she still struggled.  I worked through several different ideas with her and finally bought her 8 ounce bottles of water. Something about accomplishing drinking that whole baby bottle of water and realizing that she *could* do that eight times a day made it easier for her. Eventually she got to the point where she was drinking out of a 12 oz bottle then 20 ounce bottles.  I know this is going to sound silly but I think she just needed something to chart her progress by.  Also I think those flavor packets are a great idea and you can also get tasteless protein that you can add to drinks as well.

For the record this became critical w/Mom because she was hospitalized with a blockage about a week after her first chemo dose. She (77yo F) was given the standard chemo dose for an average male, and it knocked her out and put her completely in bed, not eating, not  moving, nothing, until she was eventually hospitalized.  She came extremely close to dying and it was caused by her inability to eat or drink after that first chemo dose.  *So working with your husband on drinking is VERY important and you are wise to work with him on it*
My mom was a big fan of lemon in water before chemo, but is an even bigger fan now. I also got her a 32 oz insulated jug from target with a straw - it has a big handle so it’s easy to grip and a wide mouth for ice and washing. We also use coconut water, martinellis apple juice, and liquid IV (not as sweet as gatorade) as needed! She also hated protein drinks (using orgain protein powder) until I got a shaker bottle and then she started complaining less when I gave them to her lol
Thank you for the idea! Coconut water never crossed my mind.
I've been giving him the same type of cup as well, reminding him to drink. He's always been terrible at eating fruits and veggies so always looking for new ways to get him what his body needs.
His sister, who passed from the same thing, pretty much went from eating solids to ensure and boost. Right now we're good with liquids so I want to keep that going as long as I can.
Great ideas, thank you! I've got such a great list started.
I forgot about those flavored water drops. Excellent idea, thank you!
Admittedly I was worried about juice because of the sugar but honestly, in the end, it's not going to change the outcome. Like everyone here, I just want him to be comfortable.
Heading into summer I was thinking about lots of sweet tea and Popsicles but never thought about jello. Thanks!
Thinking Popsicles for the summer. Thank the gods he's not at the point where he can't swallow yet. Mostly it's that he forgets and I want him to have things he enjoys but isn't just soda.
Good advice. When I use water enhancers for myself I use double the water otherwise they're too much. Maybe I'll do the same with him.
No medical reasons regarding sugar, just habit I guess. Always being told watch sugar, fat, etc. Have to remind myself that if it's between kool-aid and nothing...kool-aid wins, lol.
Just put myself on the waiting list!
I'm so sorry about what your mom and you are going through. As with most things baby steps are usually the best way to go. Thank you!
I first read that as coconut water, martinis... and I thought "Well, that would make me happier to drink more! " Lol! Thanks for the ideas!
One way my mom really enjoyed eating fruit was raspberries or blackberries or blueberries with whipped whipping cream. It’s absolutely delicious and whipping cream from scratch is so much better than Cool Whip or those red bottles.  She struggled with that too so we had fruit for dessert every night. Unless the doctor tells you there’s a problem with whipping cream because it has a lot of calories, it’s a good way to get calories in them
Check out Orgain if you have not. I personally think it taste so much better than ensure and boost, and it also has more vitamins and protein. Just a thought, I know you said you had liquids worked out
Yeah, drinks with lots of sugar aren't ideal buuuuut dehydration is worse, you know? And can increase your risk of a UTI, which increases dementia symptoms, which can increase dehydration, and then it's all a vicious cycle.

If he's getting regular blood work, maybe make sure the A1C (also called glycosylated hemoglobin) is on it to watch for early diabetes. I don't know where your husband is, but my mom is terminal and the diabetes educator said specifically to always prioritize hydration over blood glucose management.
Thank you. I was blessed to get another five years with her before she passed rather suddenly last year (not from her cancer). I still visit these boards because I got so much out of them when she was so bad off and if I have an idea or two that help anyone, it makes the time worth it.  Thinking of you!!!
The more options the better.
Bloodwork has been normal and this is a terminal disease. 3-5 years, so, yeah. Just want to keep him in a good place as long a possible.
My condolences. The more I do this the more I feel like you never truly stop caregiving.
