I don't have personal experience myself, but know a little of what you're describing from friends and from readings in disability studies.

In a family with a disabled child (or "special needs" if you prefer), the siblings without disabilities in a family are somewhat ignored, pressed into caregiving service, held to higher standards than the disabled kid, get less praise or special notice of accomplishments—and are expected to suck it up, not be a burden, smile when they don't feel like it, become invisible when not caregiving. 

It's not always quite as toxic as that sounds; lots of shading, nuance, level of motivation to avoid crapping on the non-disabled kid(s) from family to family. And of course it's a little different in your case with adults and cousin needing care; but the basic pattern seems similar. (See # note at end)

I *think* what you want and have every right to rant about is a little different than what r/CaregiverSupport is really good at talking about, although you're more than welcome here. It seems like you want to discuss the aftermath of caregiving, rather than caregiving itself. (Or I could be wrong, and there are many who can relate personally; if so, great.) 

You might try searching online for "siblings of children with disabilities." There are other terms you'll probably figure out as you poke around, but this will give you a start.

As far as a forum on Reddit, I'm not sure; perhaps someone else can chime in with suggestions. Or you can sift and search through this huge map of Reddit communities which is organized by topics similar to each other: 
https://anvaka.github.io/map-of-reddit/

Hugs and love to you!

(#Note: it's somewhat similar to CODA, [hearing] children of deaf adults. I haven't seen the movie by that title yet, don't have Apple streaming—but mention as it may also be a helpful sorting through what you need.)
I'm very much an advocate of young people living their life. If I were you I would take stock. This is really hard, so I would get professional help. If you are in the U.S. there will be county social workers. Call a local larger hospital, they will have at least one on staff and they can refer you. Or call adult protective services, they will also have resources. The point is to get guidance and an experienced adult to determine your family's needs and how to meet them *without* you living there.

You are an adult and now have the freedom to live your life. While the planning for your family needs is happening, figure out your own trajectory. You don't mention if you are in college. If you are, and living where you are is what allows you to be educated, consider toughing it out until you graduate. 

Or formulate an exit plan. You need money. Are your friends living at their parents' homes, or are they supporting themselves? Can you get an apartment with one of them, work part time and go to college? Or work full time and support yourself? There are a lot of jobs out there now. You're young and it's ok if you don't know what you want to do. But if you get out, maybe you will discover your passion. You will certainly discover your life. 

Good luck to you, this is a really tough situation. This can be done with love, but extricating yourself may bring up resentment from your family members who remain. That is the point of developing a plan with a social worker to get support at your family home for services you would otherwise provide there. This internet stranger cares, and wants you to experience life away from these burdens.
This is what is known (by me, anyway) as sacrificing one child to care for another.  You may have heard of parents who have an additional baby so they can get a kidney match for the sick older child.  

You're 19, an adult.  Pack a bag and leave.  Find a job, any job, and rent a cheap room, probably in a shared house or somebody with a spare bedroom to rent.  You can stay in phone contact with these relatives only to the extent that you aren't getting guilt-tripped.  If that happens, block them.

Dysfunctional families employ a lot of denial.  Your mother and aunt may be totally oblivious to how damaging this circumstance has been to you.  Therefore, it won't be surprising if they see you as selfish - because in their world view,  you are.  Well, think for yourself and refuse to buy into that.

Best of luck.  You have a life ahead of you - live it!
