It’s really hard, I know. I recommend watching some of Teepa Snow’s videos for caregivers/families on making things easier for themselves and the person they are caring for. Disagreeing, correcting, or arguing with someone with dementia tends to make them feel ashamed, agitated, or afraid. Imagine someone telling you that the reality you are experiencing isn’t real. You would freak out, too. The best advice I’ve heard is to play along, change the subject, or ask them neutral questions about the person/situation they are confusing in order to understand where they are stuck (“tell me about a time you and your sister did x”—those memories tend to stick around longer and can be amusing/fun for him to think about). You’ve got this.
I would also just know that traveling and changing routines can be really hard on someone with dementia. It can really bring out confusion and fatigue. So I would keep your dad to any routines as much as possible and designate a space he can be in that is quiet and peaceful when he needs it.
Honestly as hard as it is, try and make the best of it. Take advantage of the time and if you find some lucid moments ask him about his life, his childhood, ask about memories he might still hold. Make a video or audio recording, take lots if pictures and be sure to try and laugh together. Trust me, you will cherish these memories in the years to come. My dad is too far gone to do things like that now 😒 and I'd give anything to be able to make more memories with him.
This sucks. I'm so sorry you are going through this.

But I can offer one suggestion to help out: Dad's always right. Just agree with him, or keep him talking about whatever he thinks is going to happen.

Your Dad's brain is not functioning properly, and it will only get worse over time. There is no cure for dementia, although how fast a person degrades varies greatly. It could be a couple of months or a decade... there's no way to know.

So the world your Dad is experiencing is only RIGHT NOW. There's no tomorrow. There's no yesterday. There is only the present moment for him.

And you have the ability to make this moment right now as good as possible and give him a moment of joy and happiness. If he is excited to be talking to your sister - but he's actually talking to you - go ahead and play along. Be your sister for a minute. Ask him a leading question that gets him talking. Anything at all...

Because the honest truth is that he won't remember later, and his brain will move on other thoughts throughout the day.

All you can do is make each moment you are with him as easy and comfortable as possible, and to do that, just try to agree with him and move the idea along. Pushing back is pointless... he won't remember he was wrong or confused, and - in the moment - he won't respond well to the pushback.

Finally, find a dementia sufferers support group. I'm in one that meets via Zoom once every two weeks. We all just talk with each other about our experiences and our loved ones, and share techniques and ideas for how to deal with the dementia journey. It is incredibly important and valuable to talk about your experiences with others. You gotta refill your compassion well constantly, and a support group will help.
Hey y'all, thanks for the support and advice.  Another worry I have that just popped up.  My cousin's wife shares a first name with my dead mother.  They were divorced for like 35 years at the time she passed, but I'm really uncomfortable thinking about it now.
Who decided that you're the one responsible for keeping track of him the entire time? Can the family all pitch in to hire an aide to manage him for the weekend so you can actually talk to people? Just driving with him alone will be exhausting
Thank you!  The family reunion is beginning of next month and there are so many freaking plans.  My stepmom (Who I ADORE!) want me to be the one in charge. So I think even though it'll require an uncle to go 9 hours out of the way, that may be best for my dad psychologically. 

A cousin has said they'd fly in to drive dad's Jeep with him, his wife, their son and my dad with luggage and 4-5 sacks of crawfish. Where as Uncle and his wife has a huge, double cab truck. I would prefer that to flying to OKC and drive with my sister and aunt to the location.
Definitely this. And I would talk about the trip. A lot. We did that with my Grandma. Every day we brought it up. It made it more of a constant and easier for her to latch onto. Of course it might also lead to a lot of "We will go soon." And we made a countdown.
My stepmom trusts me the most. And honestly, I'd rather just skip the damn thing because there are a bunch of people I haven't seen in 20+ years or haven't met. But, it's my dad I, I want to be there for him. This adulting thing sucks. Also, I'm not going to be traveling with him alone. There will either be my cousin with his family or my uncle who will be traveling with his wife.
Don't be afraid to push for the travel arrangements that you know will work best for you and your dad.
Dad has been calling his sister every day about the trip.  Sister has volunteered to help pay for my to fly to OKC and drive to reunion.  But I think at this point I can point to more pros than cons about an uncle driving out the way to pick Pops up than me flying to OKC and spending 3 days on the road with Aunt and my younger sister.
Yep, and don't be afraid to set boundaries with the family if you have to.  They have no idea what caring for someone with dementia is like, and there will be times you simply can not accommodate other people.
