No real advise, my moms at the same point; declining rapidly and speech is a word salad.  So far I just roll with it and build a back and forth banter but I think it's frustrating her.  I'm not sure if she doesn't know what's going on or if she just can't express herself.  I was thinking of getting or making a small set of cards you see used for helping kids with autism express themselves but for general conversation.  

Maybe like:   I like, I need, You , plant, flower, drink, candy, dinner, nap, etc.

Everything with mom is a moving target.  You figure out one thing and something else pops up.
It's so hard deciphering what they're trying to say and it's also exhausting. I wish I had advice but I think it's more about reminding yourself that they't sick. It's also scarier and worse for them than it probably is for us. It's hard. I snap all the time and its not kind of me \~ still trying to figure it out myself
New to this reddit.

My Mom had a massive stroke a few years back which manifested itself in declined cognitive skills once she recovered.  Her dependence on others for daily tasks required that she be moved to assisted living.  Last Christmas she seemed the most talkative she has ever been.  I actually felt like she finally was coming out of her shell.  Sadly today she has been moved into hospice and has a FAST score of 7A.  In a matter of a couple of months her dementia escalated to the point that she no longer recognizes anyone in the family and conversations are a jumbled mess of words if she even attempts to speak at all.  Our family has a history of AD, so between the stroke and AD, she went from a vibrant outgoing woman to this in just a few years of time.  She is 81 now.

The hardest part is trying to talk to her.  Not knowing if it is her brain not connecting the dots or if there really isn't anything in there anymore.  With the stroke, her brain had to rewire itself just to relearn how to talk, swallow and the like.  So for a while she would be doing one thing in her head, but her body would do something else.  It was playing tricks on her.  Now with the advanced dementia, it's far worse than it was after the stroke.  I can see why she would not want to say anything if no one seems to understand what it is she is saying anymore.  

The idea of picture cards seems to make sense, but that assumes her brain is capable of telling her hand which card to show.  With her stroke in the past, the brain didn't make the right connections, so I'm thinking the same may be happening as well now.

I just don't know if she's trapped in her body being unable to communicate with us or literally non-communicative.  So many things I would have liked to say to her but am unable.  Much like with my father who passed back in 2015.

If I've learned anything through all this is that waiting to say anything to your loved ones for the right moment is a mistake.  That right moment may be too late.  You think you have time, but you don't.  My family was never all that communicative about such things, so it was only natural to put things off.  It was just the way we were.  Now it's like, so many missed opportunities.

I know this isn't much help, but maybe knowing that things could already be far worse might help you to navigate through this time.  I found that letting her talk, incoherent as it may be, and nodding as if I understood, made her feel part of this world.  This of course was before the decline to where she is now.  She doesn't even attempt to talk anymore.  So it's more me having a conversation with myself.  I picture her staring at this stranger wondering why they are here talking to me about things I know nothing about.  As long as she isn't getting frustrated or agitated, I think it gives me some comfort knowing that I am at least there.
Well if she can’t keep the conversation you can just keep it going on your side as if it were normal. Like how you’d talk to a baby? Not quite like that obviously, not with the baby voice but you know like people talk to their babies in pretty much a conversation that only has one person verbalizing. But it’s still a connection and could still be really nice for your mom. So I guess just like keep talking to her and if she says something you don’t understand give it a pleasant acknowledgment “oh you think?” “Oh I see!” And keep going.
Just smile and agree. My mom is in year 6 now. She actually does not even say much now. The answer for so many of these things is patience. When I think of all she did for me, I find the will. She would want me to pay it forward to my kids and would be mortified at all of this.
That’s good advice, thank you! I was talking to her earlier and I suggested maybe writing things down (like the date or something easy to help with strengthening memory) but she didn’t seem too keen on that. I hadn’t even considered cards but I’m going to look into them :)
