No, it's not "normal." 65+F here. There are medications available, along with very-much-like-underwear disposable panties, and probably other ways of treating incontinence. She is probably "nose-blind" to the smell—we become desensitized to something we're around frequently. Time for a talk with her primary care doctor or gynecologist. She may be embarrassed, but it isn't healthy. 

By the way, if the smell isn't just the blankets, Nature's Miracle for dog or cat pee is wonderful on human pee too. Downside is you have to saturate the area and let it dry, as evaporation of the product is the key to destroying odor. (Edit, spelling)
Reference: my parents live with me and I have been through all of this for years. 

Poorly controlled blood sugar levels causes frequent nighttime bathroom visits for diabetics. Testing your blood glucose level can be done for about $10 with a cheap glucose meter and one if the test strips that comes in the box. 

Incontinence is a cognitive problem and should be reported to her doctor. A urologist can prescribe medications to help (Mybetrix and Gyntessa I am familiar with) but they are not a silver bullet - they might decrease nighttime urination by maybe half. A urologist easily tests for weak bladders using ultrasound after they have urinated in the office. Unsurprisingly my mother retained more than 2 cups of urine after feeling she had just gone to the bathroom. She also discovered she has chronic urinary tract infections of a kind that do not hurt which exacerbates her nighttime urinary problems. Meds mentioned above, antibiotics, and learning how to administer a self catheter helps a good bit. Btw, those urination meds are expensive so be prepared to get lots of samples and work the “doctor’s pre authorization“ bit with her insurance. 

In my experience, elderly are completely “nose blind” to their toileting odors. We use 4 deodorizers in the hallway leading directly to and in their bathroom. My parents lives are completely dominated by toileting issues and reduced mobility. Their doctors have helped my wife and I understand that at some age, and your mother sounds like she is at the lower end of the statistics, such problems effect about 75% of elderly. 

Schedule appointments with her primary care physician and a urologist as soon as possible. Help for her is a process and can take months before real relief becomes occurs. And bring a book the the urologist’s office  - those visits can take forever. 

Best of luck to you both. I hope this helps.
My dad is 69 and has bladder problems but he never wet the bed.
Vinegar is a godsend. My mother has incontinence the last few years. Poise pads are wonderful for her and easier to change than the underwear style. She too is up constantly and there has been no medical relief. Soak clothes in the wash w white vinegar. It has saved some of her clothes.

Time for her to acknowledge her body doesn’t work the way it once did. And she can avoid changing sheets constantly by using the appropriate products. Good luck, it’s a touchy subject.

\*assuming she has been thoroughly evaluated for untreated underlying conditions.
My dad started having issues in his 70s. It honestly gets worse not better.
Is her blood sugar controlled? What is her A1C?
