Acknowledge the suck. When she says ‘I want to go home’ validate those feelings. Let her be sad because it IS a sad thing she’s dealing with. Grieve with her about this change.  Yes there’s a time to focus on the good, but let her grieve the bad too without glossing over it.
I like going about an hour or hour and a half before meal time. I usually bring my dad some food and a chocolate shake/ Coke Zero. He doesn’t have eat well with their food and that keeps us busy for a while talking about all the family and getting updates on life. It’s sad seeing him there. Sometimes I give him a hand massage because he talks about his hands cramping (could be lack of water or less function) The little things they can no longer enjoy because they don’t have people around to stop and smell the roses. They say touch is important. I Hate when he asks me to leave. Some visits are worse than others. Some are great with no “take me to the car” references.  My dad has not fell in love with his place yet and it’s been 3 months, although they are changing a med this week and I heard it’s waaaaaay better already. Wish me luck this weekend. We will see.

Edit: oh yea, first point, going before a mealtime like that allows you to tell them bye but “sit them at the table with friends” as it’s time for more food. Gives them a distraction when you leave.
I try to visit during the mornings because that is when my grandmother is "at her best." I also try to keep the visits relatively short to avoid getting to that point in the conversation where she asks how long she has to be there. But, if the question does arise, I simply tell her, "As soon as your doctor says it's okay to go home." That answer seems to satisfy her.

Honestly, after about a month, my grandma stopped asking all together because she really did start to love the facility and she became better acclimated to her new home. I bring her flowers and a treat with each visit to start off on a positive step. She's just happy to see me.
I'm sorry you and your wife are in this situation. We're in a very similar one here. 

I take care of my father at his home (we realized that he wasn't able to live alone when I came down for my monthly visit and things had really taken a huge turn) and my mother was placed in a MC community in July - Dad's decision. The first month was really rough. Dad finally went to see her after 3-4 weeks (the calming down period took a while) and I wasn't able to see her for a few months (I was in the doghouse for almost a year previous because, well, I was the one taking care of them and that's how it goes sometimes). Definitely validate her feelings, but deflect the decision to the doctors and/or change the subject. 

The suggestion to show up close to mealtime is a really good one. You have an "excuse" to leave, and you'll appreciate that.  The first visits work better if they're short visits. 

We try to bring her something to do - not every time - but large print word searches are something she enjoys even though it's really challenging because her ability to discern letters/words is decreasing.  You can bring in coffee and donuts or something she enjoys that is not complicated and easy to eat as long as she's not on any dietary restrictions. 

Enjoy any good times you have, and remember them when things get a little wild. This disease is like riding a rollercoaster. I wish you the best.
So sorry to hear about your situation. It’s always sad and heartbreaking. 

Try and bring some familiar things for your wife. We outfitted my dads place with some souvenirs he had purchased on trips over the years, and photos of him and family members. We also always try and bring a little treat when we visit- a soda, a chocolate, some candy, etc. 

Also- it’s nice to go to the dollar store to grab some decorations for holidays (Easter, Halloween, Christmas, etc)  - we have my dad help put them up each time, and it’s a nice activity we can do together at his new hope. 

We also made a photo book so that he can keep referencing his memories. Which has helped.
OP here. I should be able to visit this coming Wednesday or Thursday. Thanks for some very good thoughts and suggestions. Not sure if course, how it will be. She’s refusing any meds, so we’ll see. The important ones are the Olanzapine and her statin (her cholesterol was 331 when tested in San Diego). Thinking she’s just giving up?
