We have used a portal carpet cleaner - it has worked super well. 

Monitor her behaviour closely- this may be linked to a UTI which can cause psychosis in dementia patients. If you notice dramatic behaviour changes, work with your health care provider.
Yes I would try the salt and baking soda. Soap and maybe a fan directed at it. Working with dementia patients sometimes we have  to extra super tape the attends so it can't be removed easily. Definitely invest in a plastic mattress cover. Definitely a challenging time. As others have said monitor for UTI symptoms. If she just had a procedure done, bacteria could of been introduced at that time? Frequency is a UTI symptom.  Not sure what you refer to as cleaning something, perhaps a vaginal pessery, which is a device for vaginal prolapse.
This won't help you now, but possibly in the future.  I use a disposable underpad on my mom's bed.  I've tried a couple, but my favorite is one made by Walgreens ([https://www.walgreens.com/store/c/walgreens-certainty-premium-underpads-ultimate-absorbency-x-large/ID=prod6272476-product](https://www.walgreens.com/store/c/walgreens-certainty-premium-underpads-ultimate-absorbency-x-large/ID=prod6272476-product)).   The pad is 30" x 36" and I place it under the bedsheet.  If there is an accident, I do have to wash the bedsheet, but the pad protects the mattress.  I also place a pad on her recliner chair.  It's pretty absorbent.
https://www.thesprucepets.com/best-cat-stain-odor-remover-4153334

Enzyme cleaners for pets like these work
I don't know how to clean pee that's already been soaked in.  I've tried pet urine cleaners before.  If it's small,, that will work but large amounts where the urine has already crystallized won't work..

Can you just rip off the fabric part since it sounds like it's part of the bed itself?

I know there are waterproof matress protectors, blanket protectors, pillow protectors.
Salt and baking soda usually can do the trick
Do you have a cover for it?  Get one that encases the mattress and flip it until you are able to get a better fix.
I second those suggesting a mattress encasement cover. You may also want to look into getting absorbable under pads for the mattress to further protect the mattress.
Bissell spot cleaners work well for upholstery, cars, any accidents.  I would get a rubberized mattress pad as well.  If you have removable seat cushion covers, you can slide a plastic garbage bag over the cushion and then put the cover back on over the bag.  This worked on my sofas and any seating you want to protect.
This stuff is the best I've tried to remove urine odors. https://www.mypetpeed.com/
[removed]
Seconding this. My grandmother has been struggling with a UTI and it was causing auditory hallucinations, which is especially upsetting because she's also now completely deaf and unable to hear anything else. Anyway, UTIs are bad news and change behaviors.
She originally had urination issues which led to needing to have a surgery done to put something inside her. We just recently took her to the dr to get the thing cleaned. She doesnt have uti. Shes in late late stages of dementia though where she cant control peeing or pooping (she even poops in the shower when we bathe her) we have a carpet cleaner but dont know if we can put it on the bed. Its not really even the matress I think its like the bedframe thing which has fabric on it. Finally got grandmother oit of bed myself but dont know what to put on bed to take the smell


She done this before too but it was worse. Just stressful trying to figure out how to gwt urine smell out since we have no urine cleaner stuff
We have a matress cover and a pee pad and she also wears pullups but I guess she peed the pullup many times last night then when she got up peed it again then it came out or something? We thankfully managed to use the carpet cleaner on the bed and get up the smell but was definscary. Wasnt first time did it worse before and used baking soda but it still left a like stain
„˙xıɟ ɹǝʇʇǝq ɐ ʇǝƃ oʇ ǝlqɐ ǝɹɐ noʎ lıʇun ʇı dılɟ puɐ ssǝɹʇʇɐɯ ǝɥʇ sǝsɐɔuǝ ʇɐɥʇ ǝuo ʇǝ⅁  ¿ʇı ɹoɟ ɹǝʌoɔ ɐ ǝʌɐɥ noʎ o◖„
Baking soda will minimize the odour. Try and mop it up the best you can. I’d try and get a carpet cleaner if you can. Perhaps diapers if she is willing to wear them could be helpful. 

Sorry you are going through this it is challenging. Sending hugs.
I'm sorry you have to go through that and I know how difficult it is.  I'm the sole caretaker for my mom who is 94 and every day can be a different challenge.  I hope you're able to take some time for yourself today.  It's important.  Take care.
Bad bot. Please remove this sub from your list.
We have q carpet cleaner, she also does wear pullups. She messes them often and goes to bathroom millipns of times at night sometimes it doesnt wake up (I sleep with her) and I guess she managed to take it off or something since I couldnt find a pull up in the trash or laundry. We had put clothes on her yesterday so I assume she took her pullup off sometime yesterday or last night then put pants back on. She often is confused and takes the pullup off or refuses wearing them. 

Theres also times at night where I guess she pees them multiple times which causes leaking ? 

:p I’m 19 and rely on help of grandfather and mother to care for her. Grandfather just came in short while ago and mother jut now getting here.
