CNA here who worked in many memory care units and now works privately. Please do what you can to keep her at home with a caregiver. There's a lot of abuse that goes on within facilities, especially in Memory Care units. Sexual, mental, physical.... By staff but also by other residents.
As to how to get it, go through your Aging and Disability Resource Center or in some places find the Agency on Aging.  It is a bit lengthy and a messy application, but the social workers can help you with it.  There are multiple options, from paid caregivers at home to a facility.

As to convincing mom to go - start pointing out the ways in which caring at home is harder and harder for you and you can't meet all her needs.  Maybe take her on a tour of one of the nicer facilities in the area (that you can't afford probably).  Eventually she will probably be swayed.
A friend of mine recently had to do this with her mom. In fact there are several children but each one of them is disabled with one disease or another. She pretty much cut off all conversation with her entire family once she realized everybody thought she needed to go into a home because she kept having so many problems trying to live by herself. That was a few months ago and now she is in  a place that she likes (I don't know what kind of place but I know it can't be that amazing because they don't have very much money). She has a roommate that she likes and she gets taken care of like she likes and gets the medicines that she needs. She is happy and has started talking to everybody again like nothing ever happened.
These are questions for a social worker, because the answers specifically pertain to your mother's finances and health coverage plus the area she lives in. Your mother's doctor should connect you with a social worker.
I just put my mom into a nursing home.  It was hard to convince her, but it was the best thing for both of us.  An in home caregiver was far too expensive, and the nursing home was the best option.

If you decide on placing her in a nursing home, make sure you visit each one you are interested in.  Also read reviews online, and ask the residents how they like it there.  See what kind of food and activities they offer, to help keep your loved one busy.  Check out your state’s websites and see if they have lists of homes to avoid, or if they have their own ratings.

Good luck.
Try to keep her at home as long as possible and see about having someone come to her home. She would be in her comfortable, familiar surroundings. She will be more relaxed.
Alright thank you
I also have worked at many memory care facilities. They are severely underpaid and understaffed resulting in caregivers who don’t care and are just there for a paycheck. I’m NOT saying all caregivers are like this, some are awesome and do a wonderful job. But, I agree, if at all possible, keep her at home! She will have many good moments and recognize her home! It really does make a difference! Wishing you all the best and sending much love to Mom🥰
Perfect thanks
How did you get her a caregiver with Medicare? My mom has Medicare and I was told we couldn't get help unless she was approved for Medicaid...which she isn't because she owns a home and I don't want her to have to sell it. Right now I'm trying to get approved for 30 hrs a month through the VA because it's just me 24/7 and I need to be able to have a break once in a while, had to quit my job and everything.
You're welcome!
My Dad gets 13 hours of HHA a week from the VA, and I am his only care giver. Talk to her social worker at the VA. The amound of hours they get is based off what they can/cannot do themselves, and a few other things.
Thank you, I will.
Just keep in mind...the HHA is also subject to them being able to find a local nursing agency that sends out HHA, and them having enough staff.

We ended up not having his HHA this past Thursday and Friday, as the company had to take his HHA to cover someone who is a higher priority (based off what they can/cannot do themselves, and what other support they have). Since my Dad still has me, our HHA is temporarily pulled, and we'll get it back once they have the staffing to fill it. :(
Well my mom is a blind stroke victim so there isn't much she can do by herself especially since she lost her vision at the same time she had the stroke so she was never really able to learn how to do things properly without her sight.
That will factor into her being higher up the priority list...BUT...if she lives with you, or has you as a caregiver...that will put her at a lower priority than someone who has no help.

Now, if my Dad did not live with me, his only other option would be a nursing home. But if he were in his own place, he would probably get more hours AND be higher up on the priority list because he cannot do much for himself, and I would not be there with him 24/7 to help.

This isn't just a VA thing, this is just how the nursing agencies have to spread their staffing. When I worked as a HHA awhile ago, we have a few clients that were such high priority, we STILL have to go to them if there was a level 3 road level. Most of our clients had at least enough help that if the roads hit level 2, the HHAs were canceled for the day.

At one point, I had 2 clients that were higher priority. I had an elderly guy that had a diabetic sugar so low when he was in a nursing home, it blinded him and froze his hands and fingers to look like claws. He could go to/from the toilet, and if he had snacks/meals that did not need heated up, he could get those...but he could not cook or do anything extensive. I also had a younger female who was paralyzed from the neck down, so we did just about everything for her, and was a hoyer lift. Even being a total care, she did not get a HHA 24/7. She got 8 hours a day, 7a-11a to cover breakfast, getting up/bathed, and lunch. and then 5p-9p to cover dinner and getting into bed.

Part of the reason my Dad is "lower" on the priority list is because they know I am a nurse aide, with a background in nursing...so he is covered if they do not have a HHA. I was 3 years into nursing before I switched majors. But I do all his meds, including 5 daily injections (3 mealtime insulins, 1 bedtime insulin, 1 blood thinner shot), all oral meds, blood sugar checks, check/changing, etc. I have also done wound dressing and IV meds for him, as well.

But...as I said...talk to their social worker. Even if it ends up being a few hours each week, that is still a few hours for you to get some rest and take a break.
Yeah my husband and I were in an apartment but had to move in with her as she needs someone with her 24/7. She can use a walker but is very unsteady and can't see where she's going. The stroke caused short term memory issues and some ambulatory issues. She can't cook for herself, she can eat okay by herself but sometimes needs help. I shower her, dress her, change her, wipe her. She can brush her teeth and part of her hair. I try to find things she can do besides just listen to tv or books to help with her dexterity. I bought some soil and succulents and pots for her to paint. I'm not sure why but her sense of touch or cognition of where things are doesn't seem very good either as in most people even if they had their eyes closed could probably feel around enough to find things that she can't. I think part of it has to do with the tumor she had removed from her brain, it was benign but it caused all of this...her blindness, her loss of pituitary gland plus something went wrong and she had the stroke upon waking up from the surgery so the left side of her body is very weak. She can't walk in the walker for more than 7 min without her back hurting but we are working on that and I bought a wheelchair. It's been pretty exhausting tbh, she got sepsis and had to go to a physical therapy rehab, just came home 3 weeks ago but they sent her home with a fungal infection that hasn't completely cleared up yet, I've been setting my alarm to wake up every 2 hours to make sure she's still dry and it takes me a while to fall asleep...if it wasn't for my aunt who has been able to come over a couple times I would be delirious I think.
Your poor Mom. :( I am glad she has you guys. As much care as she needs, she should qualify for some weekly hours. Even with me here, my Dad qualifies for 13 hours of HHA a week.

And my Dad is close to a total care. He can feed himself, and when washing up, he can get his face/hands/etc...but needs help with everything else. His memory has been bad, so I cannot trust him with remembering his meds. Sometimes not even 15 mins after I give them to him, he forgot I did, and asks me why I didn't. He cannot make meals or get much of anywhere in the house himself, unless he's in the wheelchair...and my kitchen is not very handicap friendly. He is supposed to be a hoyer lift, but I have worked as an nurse aide long enough (and am strong enough) to pivot transfer him, as needed...so I can still get him in/out of the house and car...to take him places like medical appointments, etc.

Again, I am glad your Mom has you. :) Trust me...I have worked in the nursing homes. I refuse to put my Dad in one, as long as I can help it. I told him the ONLY way I would consider placing him in one, is if his dementia got bad enough that he got combative and because a safety risk to his grandson...which he agreed.
