I think it depends on the kind. My grandma has vascular dementia due to plaque build up that caused mini strokes in her brain. 
https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/vascular-dementia/symptoms-causes/syc-20378793#:~:text=This%20condition%20occurs%20when%20deposits,blood%20that%20nourishes%20your%20brain.

She ticked a lot of boxes on the Risk factors listed. Over weight, high cholesterol, etc. I do think diet and exercise can definitely help in at least certain types like vascular.
Yes. No. Maybe. And if you can find a definitive answer, congrats, you've won the Nobel Prize. No snark intended—gesturing at the enormity of the problem.

Maybe the best answer is, it can't hurt to walk a relatively straight and narrow path, and have "good" genes, but there are at this time no guarantees. 

Here's a useful overview starting point:

https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/dementia/symptoms-causes/syc-20352013

And a prayer for you and your family.
Definitely genetic in my family. The women.  You can do things or eat things that play a role.
Many diseases are caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Mutations in certain genes may put you at higher risk for developing certain forms of dementia, but this doesn't guarantee you will end up with dementia. There are certain healthy habits that may reduce your risk of developing dementia, like proper diet and exercise, but you may very well still develop dementia. Following an overall healthy lifestyle will often improve quality of life overall, so I figure, there's no harm in trying to keep with that.

My grandmother began experiencing memory loss in her mid-80s and that progressed to severe dementia into her 90s. My mother would ask me if this was what was going to happen to her as well (I have a background in biological research, just not neurobiology, specifically). But, this is how I look at it: often, you have to reach an advanced age before significant memory loss and dementia sets in (not including familial forms of dementia that are early-onset--think around age 50). So, there's really not a reliable way to know (again, except for familial, but this would be early-onset). 

There are, of course, scientific theories about the causes of dementia, but I won't bore you with the details. One that keeps coming up has to do with overall metabolism and the function of mitochondria in your cells. This circles back to the healthy lifestyle thing to prevent metabolic dysfunction. 

You ask about what can be done, and I'll admit that after seeing things first-hand with my grandma, I probably have a very defeatist attitude about this. Dementia is so complicated. Seriously. There are likely so many types and subtypes and scientists simply don't know. People talk about amyloid plaques and tau tangles being causative of dementia, meaning that if you can just get rid of them, you can cure the dementia. Drug developers are focusing on developing therapies to clear plaques and tangles, but this doesn't necessarily result in less severe symptoms. Alternatively, some people have these plaques and tangles and never develop any kind of neurological impairment. 

What I'm trying to say is, in the meantime, while scientists try to figure this out, I think the best thing that can be done is to try and prepare as best as you can financially and to make your wishes known to your children about how you would want to be cared for (in-home nursing/aids, assisted living/memory care, etc.). These are hard conversations and frankly memory care is insanely expensive. But also, live your life with the time of clarity you have; hold your family and friends close. My grandmother, even towards the end, would tell my mother that she's (my grandma) okay, she's lived a long and good life.
There are proven links between dementia and several lifestyle/age related conditions but just because you have one doesn't guarantee you will get dementia, and then there are people like my dad - my dad has dementia due to a bad reaction to the drugs used to treat his Leukaemia.
It's both. There's a gene that can cause it, but it may not be activated and despite being a carrier, you won't get it. You may not have the gene, and develop it anyway. 

The best example of this is cancer: it's an umbrella term. It can  develop spontaneous, due to genes, or due to life style habits. Half your family getting it doesn't mean you'll get it. No one getting it doesn't mean you are safe. And then there's the wide variety: benign tumours, leukemia, malign tumours etc. It's incredibly hard to predict what will happen to you, but living a healthy life is always a good idea.
IMO, it could certainly be related. If they develop vascular issues due to diabetes, that can be a cause.
I was listening to a radio show today that stated the increase risks for dementia based on race are attributed to risk associated with medical conditions. Take care of the heart, takes care of the brain was asserted. Of course as previous posts also share there are genetic factors.
Following for myi
>The number of people ages 85 and older is projected to double within the next 20 years, while the number of Americans living with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias is expected to double as well, to 13 million.

I found [this article](https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2022/04/17/1093113623/washington-long-term-care?utm_medium=social&utm_term=nprnews&utm_source=twitter.com&utm_campaign=npr) yesterday. It's mostly about Washington's plan to help pay families for caregiving but the above quote hit me like a ton of bricks. 

Yes, I'm certain there's a genetic component. Yes, I'm certain there's a lifestyle component. But I think we should all just accept the fact that most of us will develop dementia once we reach a certain age range. 

I don't think there's much we can do to spare our own children except for having a solid exit plan in place. There's no way I would even think of putting my daughter in the position I've been in.
Think of dementia like a pizza.  All of dementia is a single pizza, but each slice, and there are a lot of them, is different. Different causes, different rates of how long from start to finish, etc. The kicker is that you can also have combo pizza slices. Someone has Alzheimer's, then has a stroke, so they get Alzheimers-Vascular as a combo. Someone else has Parkinson's related dementia and also Alzheimer's. The common factors are that there's debilitation and it's 100% fatal, but one version might have 2 years while another has 10.
Genetics..and health. Both go hand in hand. Took a genetics test and gave my daughter one since it seems to run on my mother side. We both test negative for the variant.

https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/alzheimers-disease/in-depth/alzheimers-genes/art-20046552
There are different types, for example alcohol related dementia. You could call that environmental. Who really knows
Thats an informative link. !thanks
Same here. Mom, grandma, and great-grandma, all in the same line, two great-aunts also died from it, it seems to be about a third of all the females in a generation who get it. So my sister and I are wondering whether we'll be lucky or whether we were right to plan what we wanted for ourselves if the monster comes calling on us while we were going through this with Mom. We've both sworn we won't be as difficult as she was, but who knows when the time comes if we'll remember that vow.
In South America isn't there a clan who all get it??? They are used for study.
No idea, I just know in my family it's about a third of the females.
