HELLO! Yes x 10000. I’m a nurse in a hospital and we have people drop their loved ones off in the ER bc they simply don’t have a place to go. Your father will be admitted for “placement” and will be assigned a case worker by the hospital (probably way better at their job than the county case worker) and they will find him placement. It may be tricky and he may be in the hospital for awhile depending on insurance but this is a absolutely the way to go. Either way they can provide you with multiple multiple resources
Get in touch with the Ageing and Disability program that's local to your dad and ask to speak with a social worker. I would not speak with the social worker at his current shelter as they are probably overwhelmed by their case load.
There probably isn't a place for him to go, unless there is another shelter willing to take him in your area. Some churches may contribute funds for a temporary motel room stay, but not likely for very long as that can get spendy. 

If you arent able or willing to take him in, he will likely end up back on the street until his name comes up on a waiting list for housing, but those wait lists for low income housing in the US are years long.

I would call your city or  county's dept of Aging or Senior Services to see if there is anything they can do to assist. It's a difficult situation to be in, I'm sorry.
I’m not American 

Does he have anything that would require a hospital? If so, Might take him there then tell the staff you can’t house him
What about calling Adult Protective Services?
in Canada some times when families have crisis they are sent to the hospital and live their until they get a care home. I use to volunteer as a elder health care person and two people where sent due to crisis and having dementia. I have no idea where you are or if this is possible everywhere
It’s a little difficult to answer this because you haven’t shared the extent of your father’s dementia or why he was kicked out of the shelter. Like the nurse suggested, if he is unsafe alone you might consider taking him to the emergency department for placement.
Oh boy.. I'm sure this is scary for you.  I would pursue a psych hospital for starters.  They can level his meds and perhaps assist with placement in a MC facility.
Can he not stay with you for some time?
Already did. The county he is in has crap caseworkers
I'll have to ponder this
They don't provide housing, already tried
FUCK NO!!!
That's really unfortunate. Unless there's some private funding or another shelter to help keep him off the streets until his Medicare goes through, he may experience temporary homelessness while the system processes his application.
I did this with my mom who has dementia.  My Daddy, her primary caregiver, was in the hospital and I couldn’t take care of her.  I couldn’t take care of her either.  So I called an ambulance and they took her in.  Thankfully the paramedics understood my situation.  We’re in Canada, and did have to pay for a while for her to be there, but without that help I would have been lost.
They don’t provide housing but in theory they would work on getting him into a nursing home, right?
If you don't mind me asking, why not? He's a vulnerable person.
Why?
Even Medicare doesn't cover long-term housing/care. He needs Medicaid too.
He has an appointment Friday for the state's waiver program to increase his benefits to a level that a facility will accept
The verbal and mental abuse he put me through as a child had enough of an effect on me
 For my own mental health I cannot live with him. I can tolerate him for short periods but other than that I don't want contact with him. I had no contact with him for 10 years and that was the best 10 years of my life. I am trying to find him someplace to live because it is the right thing to do.
That is NOT your business!
I completely understand that! I wasn't trying to call you out, just trying to get the big picture. I sincerely hope you get something sorted friend.
Good for you for setting boundaries and sticking to them. As you try to sort this out a lot of people are going to look at you as the solution. Don’t. Give. In. 

Do what you can but don’t sacrifice your mental health. Wishing you peace.
Big giant hugs to you. Please know it is not your obligation to fix this. If helping is what you feel you need to do for yourself, for you to have some kind of peace than go ahead, but also keep those boundaries firmly in place my friend. I'm proud of you for taking care of yourself like that.
Stand strong. You're very kind for trying to help at all.
With respect, you are the one putting your personal business out there on the internet.
