When we moved my MIL to a care facility, we told her the doctors want here there so she can get the extra care she needs right now. If she asked to go home we explained she can go home when the doctors say she's ready (which will never happen). She was happy with that. 

The transition itself was rough and confusing for her, but she adapted after a week or so. 

Sending you best wishes for a smooth transition.
When I moved my dad I just explained that it was so he could get the care he needs. When he asks why he is there, I explain he is having a few issues remembering things for his safety and care. The people there would make sure he was safe and well cared for. When he asks how long he will be there, I just explain it is until he got better. 

As for the room, I brought some old pictures of his family and career. I put together a scrapbook for him to flip through occasionally. He also has his favorite chair. 

I wish you the best of luck and hope it goes well.
I'm currently planning to transition my mom into memory care in the next 6 weeks or so. The facility is helping us prepare a 'cover story' for why Mom needs to be there. Likely we will tell her that she is having some abnormal heart readings (she has a loop recorder and a history of arrhythmia) and her doctor wants her to be under 24/7 nursing observation 'for a few weeks'. 

Apparently, this method works well to placate patients who ask why they're being moved to new surroundings and why they can't go home. It's all about keeping them calm until they can adjust to their 'temporary' new surroundings...the hope is that they will eventually stop asking to leave. That's the advice we're getting from all the doctors and counselors right now, anyway. 

Good luck. I hope the transition goes as smoothly as it possibly can.
I have worked with families admitting their parent into a care facility (more so the admin/leg work of the admission process). I don’t know how to best explain to them why they live there now, but what I have seen that helps smoothen the transition and makes the living experience a bit more enjoyable: supportive family should visit/call often; bring items from her last place to make her new space feel more homey (blankets, photo albums, etc); purchase an iPad so she can entertain herself with shows/games and also FaceTime family; sign her up for uninsured services that may be provided through the home (hair care, foot are, etc); have her participate in any excursions the home may plan for residents; bring her homemade meals and goodies that she usually enjoys; encourage her to participate in stimulation activities provided by the home (art, puzzles, etc); ALWAYS reassure her that she is loved and looked out for…. I hope this helps!
I agree, the best communication is "you need to get stronger before you can go home."  Without ever defining what "stronger" is.  Let her talk about going home, agree that will be nice, and change the subject. 

As to things to bring from home, I would suggest pictures and photo albums.  She may not be able to work in her garden, for example, but she can enjoy pictures.  As to other belongings, it depends on the care home.  Where my father-in-law was cared for, everything (including clothing with his name written in large letters all over it) s omehow got mislaid/stolen.  So we could bring in things to show him, but it had to be taken away again or it would be lost forever.  Where my mom lives, the only danger is that she will misplace it and accuse the staff of stealing.
Thank you for the kind words and advice
I told my mom the exact same thing - docs said she needed extra care and she’d have to stay until she got better.  She actually did have some extra health problems which made it easier to convince her.

I spent the first night with her (and got zero sleep with all her pop-ups).  We also hired a private sitter a couple days a week for a few hours a day to help her (I lived an hour away).  My local brother also visited a lot. It was good that the place had a lot of activities to keep her occupied.
Thank you very much - this is very helpful
Yes, I had to explain to my husband that anything we bring to the memory care center is automatically redefined as "disposable," as it will certainly disappear. Sometimes in a month, sometimes later that day. With residents wandering in and out of rooms (staff does their best to keep them locked but things happen), my MIL throwing things away (cards, watches, toilet paper, heirlooms), etc. Don't leave anything if you're not ok with it eventually disappearing.
My mom was one of the Memory Care thieves. I’d find tchotchkes, paintings, books that belonged to other residents.  She’d wander into others’ rooms, and either take objects or chow down on their food. And I know of at least one resident who would come into my mom’s room and take things. So, while some folks may think staff are stealing, it very well could be a resident.
My dad is wearing Tony’s shoes.  I don’t know if Tony is wearing Dad’s shoes.  It appeared that Wayne was wearing Dad’s shirt but hard to tell.  Dad had on a sweatshirt of unknown origin.  His electric razor is missing.
Same thing happens where my mom lives, and she's a culprit as well.  

In my father-in-law's case, nobody on the unit was ambulatory except the staff.
