So: I can't answer this exact question, because I don't love my father. But he was living alone (well, someone was renting a room in his house), drinking a lot, and it was a mess. I don't have to tell you how bad it can get. He ended up in the hospital and they wouldn't let him go back home.

He hated the facility (it's super Gucci) and said he was incarcerated. BUT he improved so much! He got regular haircuts again, bathed again, wore clean clothes, was eating again and put on some weight, talked to people--everything that makes him thrive. Two years later and he even has a girlfriend in memory care.

Does he like it? No. But my dad is an alcoholic with depression and paranoid tendencies even before he had dementia. He likes to retreat into himself. He would never purposefully choose to live in a communal environment, even though that's always what he's craved. He's always been so lonely and he's not anymore. He's really happy now.
I’m sorry you’re going through that. It’s so hard and heartbreaking when you have to move them. In my experience, it is the best thing for them, though never easy. 
We told my dad it was temporary while he recovered from a fall, and we’d decide if it needed to be permanent later. After a couple of weeks, he told us it was best that he stayed. He got a bit better as he would do what the carers asked - eating and drinking and taking his meds - which he wouldn’t do for my mum anymore. He has times when he tells us he’s not sick and can come home, and gets angry at being there, but when we take him out for an afternoon, he always wants to go back. It’s his safe place now, and he likes the routine and having people to care for him properly.
My wife just entered a Memory Care community  (a better word than facility) two weeks ago. It wasn’t a pretty picture because it followed a two week hospitalization involving the police and hitting me. So We just arranged for it and brought her there without notice, for the safety of all. 

I just visited with her for the first time today (their advice and policy) and was greeted with “I’m not staying here; I’m going to climb out or break my window to get out; they’re not doing  anything here.” Of course, that was five minutes before the activity director came by with the afternoon’s activities. 

All in all, I’ve summarized it as it could have been worse and I’ll go back tomorrow. 

We all have to do what’s best for them. We use our best judgments after consulting the professionals. It’s the best we all can do.
We did it with my dad. I love him.  He was not the same anymore and my mom was taking the brunt of it but even I was physically and mentally stressed and I didn’t even live with him. Hardest day of my life just emotionally but we had to. When he walked in he noticed his pictures right away and familiar items so that was nice. He thinks it’s a prison some days and others he is good. We work through things with the facility to make him more comfortable. They just changed a med that seems to help. The workers are all nice. Just sad for me. But less worry.
She will be OK.  She might fight it at first - my mom called every week for like 3 months to tell me what a horrible person I was and what a horrible place I "put her in".  I didn't "put her there" - she put herself there - she ended up in the hospital after a wandering incident, and they said she could go back to her apartment.  My advice is to hang in there - everything will work out - like someone else who commented here, my mom now has some of her dignity back.  She's clean, her clothes are clean, she's eating well & socializing.  I'd also wait to tell her until a few days before - tell her you are moving into a new place.  My neighbor used to tell his mother that they all moved to the facility and his apartment is just down the hall.  Hopefully the facility has a wonderful staff like the one my mom is in has - they really know how to work with dementia patients & their families.  They've been great to me as well - so incredibly helpful - they've answered any questions I've had & have given me advice.  I'm just happy to know that she'll be living out the rest of her life well-cared-for.
Thank you :)
I'll keep light around you and your mom. I hope you get a break soon.
