Yes, \*as long as\* the hallucination or delusion, by itself, isn't causing him distress, then don't argue. You don't necessarily have to fully engage in the sense of pretending you see them, too, but you don't want to argue with his reality, either. As you've seen, it just upsets him to be told those people aren't really there - and, I mean, if you think about it, if you were just having a nice chat with your brother, how would you feel if somebody told you you were actually talking to a wall? Probably embarassed, angry, scared, etc.

It's different, of course, if it's an upsetting delusion/hallucination or causing him to behave in ways that put him and/or others in danger. Then you have to act, and those are tricky as hell to navigate, so hopefully it won't get to that point for you. But if he's just enjoying a nice chat with the nice invisible ladies, let it go.
With dementia, the person lives entirely in the moment... they can't make plans, and they generally can't remember most things, either. So your only role with them is to make them comfortable in this moment... and the next moment... and the next moment.

He isn't going to get better. Dementia only gets worse, but at different rates for different people.

If he's happy talking to the children, there's no harm in that and feel free to engage with him in this fantasy. He's happy. He's enjoying himself for the moment. Don't steal that from him.

People with dementia know something is wrong, but they generally can't figure out why they feel odd, out of place, confused, or just "off". So they get frustrated, and can spiral into anger, sadness, etc.

So if he's enjoying the moment, let him have it. There are few "good" times with dementia, so when he's not spinning in frustration or anger over his diminished capabilities, go with it! This is now improv theater and you need to react to the reality your grandfather is creating.

**Anecdote**: My dad's Alzheimers with Lewy Body diagnosis is pretty new, and he's still pretty good most of the time. But a stressful situation a couple weeks ago sent his dementia into overdrive and made him hallucinate that I was his best friend from childhood (Mike; who passed away almost 10 years ago). My Dad then proceeded to have this amazing conversation with me (playing Mike) reminiscing about the shenanigans these two troublemakers got up to when they were kids. His eyes lit up and he was SO HAPPY to talk to his old friend Mike again!!

I was honored to be able to give him those moments of happiness.

I hope you can do the same for your grandfather.
As a nurse, I don't go alone with hallucinations or delusions, but on the same token I present what I see in a way (as best possible) that I'm not arguing with the person... such as "I believe you are seeing what you see, but this is what I see \_\_\_\_\_\_\_".
Your comment really helped me put things in perspective as we’re in a similar situation. I’m the caregiving DIL and my husband has a religious brother who absolutely refuses to lift a finger to help anyone but himself. It’s been a long, hard seemingly never ending road (9+yrs) and we have neared our breaking point. Your comment helped me find some solace in the daily grind. Thank you!
❤️
