I also ask this because my mother's father suffered from dementia for 7 excruciating years which was incredibly difficult for our family to deal with. The country we live in couldn't house him in a proper carehome during the entirety of COVID, and he passed away just a handful of months ago. We're just putting that horrible time past us and I don't want my mother to go through the same thing again with her husband instead of her father.
You know your father best- but not totally recalling some minor details of an activity a month ago isn’t a red flag to me.  

I think when people have had something traumatic happen on the family- like losing someone to cancer or watching someone painfully decline from dementia, there’s always that sense of Oh no, is it happening again??

Many things can make people forgetful- like poor sleep.  Or thyroid issues.  Keep an eye on it- if you see the forgetfulness becoming a pattern, then I’d have your dad see a doctor.
I am in the same situation as you. I am suspecting that my mom might be going senile.   It's early days. This is hard for me because the forgetfulness/confusion that is typical of dementia is limited with my mom.  It's very mild and hardly noticable.  What caught me off guard earlier this year was her moods and anger issues where she was easily angered. The moods are different every day. Some days she's trying to be my best friend and then other days she won't talk to me.  Just today I found one of my bras hanging up drying amongst her laundry.  She never ever does my laundry.  Last year I was getting ready for an event and I had a selection of good bras but that selection ran low. I found it bizarre. To loose my bras.  There was my mom with a bra that was mine.  We are different sizes by the way.  This is disgusting, the idea that she's wearing my underwear.

It's only now that I can pick apart incidents over the past number of years and join the dots. 

I think she is going senile. I hope I am wrong. I think it's only a matter of time before other symptoms that closely relates to dementia might develop like forgetfulness and confusion.
Thank you, I may be looking for things that aren't there. :p
