Have you spoken with his doctor about your concerns?  My mom was afraid she was “slipping” after surgery, and eventually went to a neurologist.  It was a good news, bad news, good news outcome - not surgery/anesthesia related, but some real decline, but not Alzheimer’s and doctor felt confident with a plan to slow and even improve some areas.

Sounds like your dad’s decline is more pronounced.  I hope you and he will get some good news.
How do I post my own comment or question ?
A bit of background info. He did drink beer nightly for at least 30 years. My mom passed in February of 2021 and of course he had been grieving. The same year in July of 2021 he got his diagnosis which was very similar to what my moms cancer diagnosis was (possibly both parents had similar diagnosis due to alcohol). His chemo IV treatments were from Aug.-Dec. 2021. In December the memory issues were painfully obvious and appeared so suddenly. By January primary dr was updated, neurologist was brought in (EEGs were and CT of head done all ruled out things like a stroke), cancer doctors (radiation and chemo) were made aware, and surgeon was made aware. What’s made this all AWFUL is that in March his cancer still had to be removed via surgery (permanent colostomy bag). So it’s a catch 22. The cancer had to be removed to prevent spread and now he can’t learn how to use the bag.............. he is currently in “rehab” for post surgery to “learn the bag” but bless his heart he can’t help that he can’t learn it as of yet.
Cancer sucks!  It steals so much from us.  What a difficult situation for you both. 

I will say that last summer I had to help put a friend into memory care.  I looked at a lot of places.  Some - certainly not all - are able to handle issues like a colostomy.  As bad as her memory issues were, it was a wrench to move her from her home.  However, she was able to settle in and now is doing quite well.  Key is the staff.  It is a special kind of person who does that work.  

I tell you this because it sounds like your dad is going to need care from now on.  As we began that journey for m friend, everything seemed like loss.  Loss for my friend, loss of my friend.  Worse, I was an active agent in taking things away from her - but it was also the most loving thing I could do for her.  And eventually I learned to count the things gained - safety, physical care, caring interactions with staff, visits with friends, and now she is close to her cousins, her last family.  

Take care of yourself on this journey!
Sadly in our state for assisted living (even with memory care) the patient must be able to manage the bag. So an option for us would be a skilled nursing home. And it blows my mind that a nice, cute assisted living is cheaper than a nursing home. It’s just the bag that’s holding him back. And I would be SO MUCH more comfortable I with him in a place like that. We are still just exploring options but the options are becoming limited.
And I love your mindset of gaining things like a feeling of safety and security. That’s how my mind has shifted for the past several weeks. I’ve been able to sleep at night even while he’s at the rehab facility.
