I would talk to her doctor and weigh the pros and cons: the risk of her becoming diabetic versus her quality of life, enjoying the pleasure of sweet-tasting food.
I don't know the answer to your question but a lot of protein shakes taste sweet but are specifically made for diabetics.  Like there's glucose control versions of boost and glycerna.  I recommend those.

If she gets worse foodwise which I suspect she will, id put 2 tablespoons of olive oil in one meal per day too.  Oil is the most calorie dense food I know of with 130 calories per tablespoon.
There gets to be a point in life that quality is more important than quantity. Let her eat sweets.
Years before we realized that my mom had Alzheimer's,  she stopped being able to taste salt. Today, my mother's brain is failing her in so many ways, not being able taste foods properly lines up with all the other cognitive failures she is experiencing.
Dementia or not...people's taste buds can start to fail/weaken as they get older. Taste buds can shrink and become less sensitive, starting even as early as the 40's and 50's. Add into that, your sense of smell can weaken as you get older...and your sense of smell can affect your sense of taste. Other things like medications and illnesses can make it worse. Dementia just messes with all sensory input, in general...which does not help.

As some others have mentioned...you can get sweet protein/nutritional supplements that are meant for diabetics. You can also get alternative sweeteners to make the sweet goodies she likes...but makes it less risk for the diabetes.

Another thing to try...the sweet/salty can be the first to weaken. If they are saying the foods they used to enjoy taste different to them...try strengthening the flavor by adding more spices. Also, try alternating between bites of the food and drink.

My Dad is more recent in his dementia diagnosis, and not a severe decline yet...and I swear he has been salting, peppering, and ranch dressing seasoning everything to death for year. I am constantly having to wipe a layer of salt/pepper off his food table after each meal. And I even season the food really well.
My mom found things much spicier as she progressed. She used to like spicy food, but she went down to my spiciness level (I think too much pepper is spicy; forget anything like salsa, even mild; basically, there’s a joke that ketchup is called “Norwegian hot sauce” and I can kinda see where they’re coming from…). At least it meant she had a spiciness guide because I could tell what might be spicy for her that normal people wouldn’t even think of.

She had always liked sweets, but that definitely got much stronger. The sweet tastebud is apparently the one that stays around the longest. 

I remember my grandmother (at like mid stage) discovering sweet tea when we moved down South from New England. I remember her with water saying “this isn’t sweet enough”.

I would definitely agree with the others who have said about enjoyment of food being the main goal at that stage. We had already stopped some of the less necessary prescriptions at that point (with the doctor of course).
I hate to say it but has she been tested for c0vid? If it's not that it's probably the disease progression -- as my grandpa progressed all he ate was cookies and ice cream (literally that was IT). Just remember that the most important thing is that she's getting enough calories to survive and is happy. I wish you luck. Since she's pre diabetic it might be a little trickier but there's definitely options.
This may also be a sign of difficulty swallowing or chewing, expressed as "not tasting right."  This is associated with both dementia and the normal aging process.  The foods you are describing would be difficult if that is the problem.  It's also possible that she needs dental attention.

You can get that evaluated and possibly get some speech therapy where she (and you) will learn more about the mechanisms of eating and strategies for dealing with that.  In the meantime, you can try dicing her food into small pieces, adding thickener to her drinks, and encouraging her to clear her throat after every few bites.
Since she likes sweets and seems disinterested in foods she normally likes you could always try Boosts, Ensures or Glucernas. They have kinds that are good for pre-diabetics and managing blood sugar. They have a variety of sweet flavors she may like and you could possibly use the drinks (if she likes them) as an incentive to eat her food.
It is very common for elderly people to think that food is poison. It is because their sense of taste changed, and everything tastes bitter to them. I think your mom is at the beginning of this. 

Try giving her Ensure, they make a sugar free version.
Loss or changes in sense of taste and smell are common in dementia patients, as the disease progresses the affects can differ but if she is still wanting to eat then feed her what she wants.
Hey thanks for your input everyone.

The biggest problem now is that she is getting so she'll only eat junk food.  I allow her sweets from time to time but she's gaining so much weight I can't handle her.  She's closing in on 200lbs at 4'11".  

Anyway, I'm calling her doctor tomorrow as it is because today she said she was hurting under her tummy (she has what is called an 'apron belly') and I looked and it's...bad.  

Always a new curveball.
Sugar-free sweets?
Totally agree. She has a terminal illness so enjoyment of food should be the goal at this point.
I do let her eat sweets from time to time, but the additional problem is that she's already gaining weight and she's getting too heavy for me to help her.
Hey there!

No, she hasn't been texted but that's mostly because she doesn't really go anywhere and the rest of the household doesn't either.  She doesn't have any other symptoms and is vaccinated/boosted.    


I think this is likely the progression of the disease I just was wondering if this is the sign that it's the beginning of the end and if anyone has experienced this as well and if this was the sign that rejecting food completely is next.
Thank you, u/HelenKellersButtplug

&#x200B;

Also, as a reddit fan, I have to give a nod to r/rimjob_steve
I do give her some of those, yes. :)
That's fair!! That's just always what I jump to nowadays 😭

And honestly it may be the beginning of the end and it may not. I work in memory care and also have a grandfather who passed of dementia. My grandpa switched to cookies and ice cream about six months before he passed but I have residents at my work who have been on protein shakes and puree for over a year and are still trucking along. It can def be a factor but isn't a definite thing! I wish you and your family luck.
I just saw this but OMG that’s hilarious! I’ve never heard of that sub until now. This is my alt acc that my friend named for me so that’s why it’s  such an odd name LMAO!
