Here's some of the stuff that keeps my mom, who has LBD, occupied and entertained: 

Adult coloring books

Any kind of art - modeling clay, watercolors, whatever

Books written specifically for adults with dementia by Emma Rose Sparrow (varying levels; all have no conflict, no "plot" as it were, meaning also nothing to endlessly fixate on - mom is a compulsive reader and loves them)

Various kinds of fidget toys

Fairy tale podcasts (basically it's someone reading her a fairy tale, there are some great options out there)

Endless reruns of the Great British Baking Show (because everyone is kind and the "conflict" is just "can they do it" and no one is mean)

Nature documentaries, provided they don't focus on animals that die (tougher than you'd think to find)
Nature documentaries are a big hit. if you go on the PBS app on a smart tv/roku etc there are a ton. My grandmother also enjoyed Finding Your Roots with Henry Louis Gates Jr on PBS. 

I also got some Benjamin Moore paint color catalogs/ photo books and we flipped through and “planned” a remodel. She didn’t believe she was at her own house but rather a fake imitation (common). Instead of trying to convince her she was home, I said “I know it doesn’t feel like home, how can we make the space feel good enough anyway for the time being?” This actually worked and she got excited about the idea of remodeling it into a new design that wasn’t trying/failing to be her home
Music from their era seems to be comfort their mood and somewhat boost lucidity
Lots of great ideas here. Check out zinniatv.com. They have free and paid content. The babies and dogs kept my mother happy. The birds and butterflies were very calming. 

My mother sorted colored index cards, folded hand towels and washcloths, sorted socks, and looked at a handful of reprinted photos from her childhood and teen years until the day prior to transitioning.
A few things, worked for my mom and now my husband: getting out of the house daily (mornings were/are easiest) even if just for a drive to the drive thru pharmacy or fast food place.

If able to, attend church services, enjoy sitting at park or in the shade watching kids play, visit baby animals at shelter, pick up a pizza and eat outdoors on a picnic table, start a potted plant garden and water daily, visit the local library, our community has music in the park in Fridays, short walk (even if just to mailbox). I scour the local newspapers, library event postings, Facebook, etc. for free no reservation events like parades, art festivals, concerts, etc and try to work in one or two a month.

Indoors- cooking bread in bread maker (help with assembling supplies, etc); invite a friend, neighbor or pastor over to visit; play music familiar to them.
Someone mentioned the adult coloring books, and I wholeheartedly agree with that.  My family member has been able to color (and interested in coloring) throughout most phases of her dementia.

While they are still able to read, newspapers and newsletters might be entertaining for them.  Many newspapers are now digital, which is a pain.  However, I was able to hunt down a few newspapers that still deliver.  Also, local community news, particularly entertainment news, is a good fit for them, because it's usually not conflictual or upsetting.  At one point, I started buying paper newspapers, pulling out the entertaining parts, and mailing them to her.  Magazines are another option.  Since you said she likes plays, maybe you could find something about theater and the arts that could be mailed to her on a regular basis.  Sometimes, making a small donation to a local arts center will result in occasional newsletters about the arts.  The New York Times is another option.
Yes! I went to Dollar Tree and purchased things like toys. We especially had fun with a stupid little velcro dart board. It was great when he was still mobile and got him up and busy.
I also ordered fidget toys from Amazon. These were great toward the end for my dad. He was a lifelong mechanic and was trying to take things apart just to have something familiar to him.
He'd finally become frustrated after 5-10 minutes of any activity, so we really tried to calm him with distractions. This often works. Works with kids, too.
I’d never heard of dementia books! I’ll try and find if there are some on audiobook since she has trouble with her eyes. And maybe some podcasts too. Unfortunately she’s very crabby about doing any kind of crafts. Thanks for the suggestions!
Love this. The one positive thing we still share is that she calls me to remind me when Finding your roots is on. And I can definitely bring down my iPad and stream PBS for her. She rarely has the stamina to make it all the way through, but I guess that’s not important. I really need to recalibrate my expectations.
Unfortunately the idea of renovation has been a major anxiety trigger for her, even before the dementia!
Great idea! She used to sing (badly) songs from the war.
Also, there are animated dogs and cats specifically for people with dementia.  They are pretty expensive, but some people with dementia absolutely love them.  They will bark, snore, and purr when petted.
The books are great because they do not mention dementia anywhere on or in the book itself. It's just in the description online. (This leads to the occasional really crap review on amazon because someone random picks it up and is like "WTF is this? No conflict, no character development, this is *terrible*!" because, well, it's not for them!) 

With LBD and hallucinations, my experience with my mom suggests to be cautious about anything involving people or animals. My mom thinks that what's in pictures is real - she's gotten very angry before because people in photos don't respond when she talks to them, and upset because the animals won't eat the food she offers. So if you go for anything with pictures, it's something to keep in mind as a possible issue.
Even if it’s only 20 minutes of enjoyment, that’s still 20 minutes that you gave her where she isn’t confused and distressed. 

The Ken Burns documentary series about country music was also a hit. And *80 days around the world*. 

I tried to get my grandmother to watch Call the Midwife but she said home births were ugly lol. I know she would have enjoyed it years ago because she was actually a nurse in the late ‘50s. 

I also went on youtube where they have videos for cats to watch, literally an 8 hour video of a bird feeder. And watching my cat jump and paw at the tv lol.
I found the Amazon echo to be a great tool.  I can control it from another city using the app on my phone.  For a while, I set echo routines for her that involved her favorite music.  It has many, many music options, including music from long ago.  Under the routine option, you can have a certain music station turn on and off at certain times.
