She might be in denial because she can't see the changes that you see. More than likely, though, she is aware that she's struggling and is worried or embarrassed. Like with any other mental health issue, its much easier to be open and honest if you believe there are ways to manage the problem while keeping your independence and dignity. She might be worried that the second she admits to memory issues, people will insist she sell everything and move into a nursing home. Or that people won't respect her as much, won't think of her the same way or want to be around. Or it's depressing to accept because there are no great cures yet. 

I would strongly suggest framing it like "if you are having trouble remembering things, or forgetting this or that specific thing is driving you nuts, other people find it helpful to...."  I think it helps to not feel like she alone has this problem and its life ending. 
Avoid monitoring her and trying to "catch her" forgetting things in order to prove or demonstrate to her & others that her memory is getting worse. You will only make her hide things and lie more, and it may even prevent her seeking out help or support that will extend her independence and reduce the stress she must feel. 

18% of adult over 60 have some level of age related cognitive impairment. Society needs to find ways for people to live openly with this condition without fear, shame and social isolation making it even worse. It sounds totally weird today, but people used to hide a cancer diagnosis back when there was nothing to be done about it and you just died. I think we are still that way with dementia.
My wife, 77, doesn't think there's anything wrong with her memory, though there clearly is and dementia runs in her family among all her sisters. Two died and one is in memory care but she asks me what exactly is wrong with her and I tell her, then she forgets we had that discussion and back to square one.   I'm trying to get her assessed by the NIH.  Her neurologist is indifferent and her primary is third rate.  I've argued with her doctors and they no longer respond to me.   So sad and painful to watch her decline.
start getting her affairs in order including power of attorney paperwork and living will etc. you will thank me later. get all the banking information, credit cards etc.
My mom has Parkinson’s so was already seeing a neurologist, he asked about her memory and she admitted it wasn’t great, so he talked her into doing some memory testing “just to get a baseline” which ended up in a diagnosis of mild dementia last year. I’m glad we did the testing, the report reinforced she should not be driving etc. I don’t know if your mom has even a primary care, but getting new or different symptoms checked out is always a good idea. Best wishes!
Unfortunately, I have no advice, but I'm in a similar boat. And it's getting worse every day. The kicker? My mom is the caregiver for my dad who has dementia but doesn't know he has dementia. I even sold my house and moved across the Pacific just to keep an eye on them. She says that she's mentioned memory issues to her doctor but he says she's fine, just under stress from taking care of my dad. If I push her to go back, she gets defensive or comes up with an excuse why she can't.

But today...oh, boy. I posted on FB about my dog being sick. My parents have known since it happened *last week*. We have been on the phone with them and texted updates and sent pics of our sad, sick little dog. My folks are very attached to her, and my dad even called me crying saying she was in his prayers. Been four days of constant contact about her condition. Today, my mom calls and is like, *your dad saw your FB post, why didn't you tell us Pasha was sick???*

I have no idea what to do besides try and get power of attorney or something. Will probably look through some of the resources posted in this sub. Because I'm very worried. And this was next level. Let me know if you figure out something for your mom and best of luck to you!
I lived through that for five years. Best advice I got here was how it got beyond denial to not even being able to see it, so don’t try to convince her. I was told that nothing would happen until the inevitable crisis, which finally happened a month ago and she’s now in memory care. Good luck and if you can get her to the doctors, it would be great. Just don’t expect it.
My mom was the same, something else had to trigger us bringing her to the doctor. In our case, she had dropped 20 pounds, basically starving herself on accident and the apparent weight loss was leverage to get her seen. Unfortunately that doctor we took her to was horrible and extremely unprofessional so we need a second opinion. I was able to schedule an appointment for 4 months later (coming up this monday) and I'm saying it's a referral from the other doctor to to talk about the brain to gut connection since eating and weight is an issue for her. phrasing it differently and not saying its a memory thing might help, best of luck
