I’m a sole provider at 53M to my mom and my social life has left the galaxy.
I can’t hold future appointments as my moms needs are as random as an electron.
Women my age are somewhat free and able to do stuff. I can’t get a day to go outta town. No siblings for help.
If you come up with solutions, pass them in.
Good luck 👍
Do you have help to get time away?
Unfortunately, I'm in agreement that it isn't easy. I'd rather be a single parent. Babysitters are easier to find than caregivers for adults. Kids are easier to handle in my opinion (father of 3 boys in their teens).

That being said, finding aide/nurse staff that can assist and are affordable is key. And I know that isn't an easy task. For dates randomly, sure...wouldn't be too hard to find someone once or twice a month...but dating/relationships? Much harder since you need extra time to cultivate a relationship with that person. Almost impossible without a lot of money or another responsible party to take some of the weight off you.

I'm (44m) two years post divorce (Jan 2020l) and haven't been on a  date since single. About a year of that was by choice since I needed time to heal from the divorce and my new role.

It isn't fun and I don't have any hope right now on making things better. I'm needed basically every 3hrs with few exceptions.
You’ve got this!!!  Can you afford a sitter or assisted living or even could you do respite care from Medicaid?
My boyfriend works from home and is the full time caretaker for his dad. We make it work! We very rarely go out but we’re both sort of homebodies anyway so that doesn’t bother me too much; he does have siblings that he can ask in advance to help sometimes (they’re very busy and live far) so if it’s something important (ex: I want a Saturday to go out for my birthday) he tries and get one of his siblings to cover. I guess it depends on what sort of care you do and what sort of schedule you have. I think it just involves a lot of being comfortable with each other, being understanding, and VERY good communication. I wouldn’t trade being his partner for the world and I love his dad and would do anything to help. So I, personally, believe it can be possible! Because I’m currently living it lol. Doesn’t mean it’s not hard, or occasionally frustrating, and it can be hard to watch your partner struggle and have bad days, but if it’s your person, it’s so worth it. I hope this was even a little bit helpful and if you have an specific questions I can do my best to answer!
Edit: Also sorry if this is not appropriate since I am not the caregiver!
Nope. Didn’t have a single real day off in taking care of elderly parents in 16 years. Had a brother who never helped and other relatives just sent Christmas cards. I’m now far too old to date so my social life pretty much ended forever in my 40’s.
40s M here. no dating here, just a little FWB for a bit when i first started caregiving and now just single and accepting it..   

personally i prefer just a no commitment hookup more than anything.. dating sounds too exhausting after care giving..
I (44F) was never much for dating, but maybe a year into full time caregiving, I started keeping up with an old acquaintance through text and FaceTime and that ultimately led into a relationship that’s now in its 5th year. So, I’d say it’s difficult, but not impossible. 

I know exactly what you mean about not being able to make advance plans. Too far ahead means anything could happen between now and then. Too last-minute means no advance notice to make needed arrangements. People that aren’t doing it cannot possibly relate, but there’s bound to be someone understanding to at least try if that’s what you want. 

Would your dad be able to do adult daycare sometimes? Or you could find a volunteer service to sit with him once in awhile. If so, do a trial run of one or both of those and then dip your toe in the dating pool. I’ve never done online dating but that seems kind of ideal since you can share a little remotely and weed out people who don’t seem like they’d be cool with hanging out at home with you AND your dad.
To be honest I wonder if having a dating life on top of caregiving would really drain you. I had a boyfriend (the same guy the whole time) during my 15 years of caregiving, only because we were together for 2 years already before that. We spent most of our time at my house except when my brother could relieve me of my caregiving duties.

I found it very hard. If I wasn't taking care of my mother's needs I was taking care of my boyfriend's. I had very little time for myself and resented them both because of it. Sucky
Nope! I have cared for my mother who has advanced multiple system atrophy (msa) for the last 3 years. I've also been a single mother for 8 years. Between that and work, dating is impossible! Not sure if that's completely because of the caregiver role... 
But most people just don't understand the toll being a caregiver takes on a person.
29F caregiver here! I have been my mom’s primary for the last 6 years and while my dad is also there to “help” he is also older and needs looking after so I essentially have two to look after. Not much help from siblings but there is an aide that comes during the weekdays. 

I Have been able to go on dates in evenings/weekends but it has required a lot of planning and making sure everything is good to go before I head out. As the others have mentioned, definitely look into adding respite hours if you can with the agency that already comes or if you are able to contract out. If you are able to get it, it’s not impossible to date! Just going to take a little work and luck meeting someone that understands your situation :)
Haven’t dated anyone since I started being my dad’s caregiver. It’s just not possible for me
30F here and it's crazy difficult. Online dating has been a godsend but sifting through all the weirdos is hard work. Good luck
Not a lot of demand for a 61M, whose current employment is primary care giver for his wife.
My boyfriend of 4 years dumped me because he was too overwhelmed with his own stuff and couldn’t handle the drama.
Hi! I met a guy just as my mom's cancer was declared terminal. His mom had died of cancer too (when he was in his early 20s) and I thought he would understand the demands of caregiving as well as the emotional burden that comes from witnessing loved ones becoming progressively more frailed and vulnerable. I was very wrong.

 I was spending a full week and a long weekend per mom with my mother and he was very uncomfortable with the time I devoted to her instead of him. I dated another guy before him and things also fizzled while I was out of town helping my mom recover from surgery.

 My recommendation is to set expectations low for both yourself and a prospective date. You might also want to simply keep things casual for stress relief's sake. Certainly avoid getting in with a needy guy. I tried both being upfront about my mom's condition and keeping it hush hush. There is no benefit to either options.
53F here- you are some woman’s future blessing.  I’m so sorry you’re having to deal with this at such a young age.  We are here for each other- it’s hard at any age.  Currently in the same boat- going out and meeting people is impossible with no one to help.   Hang in there, reach out and take care.
Ha. This hit too close to home. 
Widowed at 38 and never dated since… now full time caregiver to my mom during a pandemic… Yes. I am sure I shall die alone in a garbage heap. 
Good times. 😏
Yeah, I'm right there with you on that one. I essentially have no life outside of work and caretaking. My siblings did help initially, until they took advantage of dad's condition and stole money out of his bank account. Needless to say, they are out of the picture after being caught. "Random as an electron" I like that saying, I might have to steal that from you haha. If I somehow figure out a way, you'll be the first person to know my friend!
Even if you have siblings 99% of the time it all gets piled on just ONE person,trust me.....they think you make a sandwich or two count out pills 2 or 3 times daily and are a "leach" the rest of the time.Only advice I can give is look into respite care,even that though is NIT enough,until they pass on....then they descend in like a bunch of buzzards,and take everything valuable.
I’m 51F caring for my elderly mother, 84. You sound like a dream boat.
Caregivers’ needs matter too!  I am in the same boat- it is so isolating but you are not alone.
During the weekdays I dont have any time to get away. Unfortunately, I still work 50 hours a week as well as being a caretaker when I get home. On weekends though I could probably find a few hours of freedom here and there.
I find that caretaking gets compared to being a parent quite a bit. I can understand the thought behind it, but they are massively different in my opinion. Having 3 boys on top of caretaking though.... i couldnt imagine. 

Honestly, im still very much in shock with how expensive it is to care for the elderly. I cant figure out how its legal to charge as much as they do for in home assistance or a retirement home. Almost everything they've worked for their entire lives goes to them instead of the kids or family. Its sickening really. A relationship would be difficult to make work in a situation as this. Not only time but having the mental space to help the relationship grow. Not impossible, but would for sure be some growing pains and learning but could be worth it for the right person. 

Im sorry to hear about your divorce. Hopefully it was in your best interest and let you set out to find better. Taking the year off to yourself I'm sure helped in many ways. I've also been single for similar reasons, going on 3 years now. Also, by choice because I wanted to find healing and love within myself but then had to take on this role of caretaker. 

Keep your head up my friend, hope is really all that keeps us going. Everything can change in an instant and breathe new life into living. Life is cruel if you let it, but also kind if you look for it.
I appreciate the positivity :). Yes, thankfully I can afford a sitter if I did have a night I needed to get away. Respite care? Thats my first-time hearing about this. What is it?
Wow.... your boyfriend is damn lucky to have you. Having your support through everything I'm sure means the world to him. Thats amazing to hear that there are still people like this in this world. Gives me hope that I might find the same. It is very helpful! Sometimes, all it takes is just hearing that it's possible to make it work with the right person. No, it's still very appropriate! You're directly involved with it still and it lets me see the other side of the coin. Hearing your thoughts about it and how you guys work together to make it work is very inspiring. Thank you for sharing your side of things :) if i come up with any questions on how you guys make it work, I'll be sure to ask!
Its amazing how everyone who claimed to be close to them, scatter like flies when they are needed. Im sorry to hear you havent had good luck with dating. You're never to old to date though. Honestly, the dating pool could be better being older. Some of the newer generations morals and mentality are pretty horrendous. I hope you find hope in finding someone again, and i hope you do find someone. Life could turn out maybe not the way you thought, but what you needed and new memories could be your best yet.
Thank you for telling me that. It gives me hope that something similar could also work for me and isnt some fairytale I keep telling myself. Reminds me of the movie Dumb and Dumber, "So you're tellin me theres a chance!!!" hahaha!

Yeah, that seems to be the most challenging part about the whole thing. Finding the time to actually try and put in the effort of finding someone. I hope to find someone understanding enough to possibly make something work.

I do have a company that comes during the week while im working to watch and take care of him. I do have a neighbor though who could possibly watch him at night if something were to come up. Ive dabbled a bit with online dating, but it seems to be very oversaturated with guys haha, but i do agree that would probably be the best route to take.
Ive often wondered the same thing. That would make it very difficult to get alone time. On the other hand though, it would be nice to not have to go through everything alone. Hopefully there was enough give and take to where he would help with your needs as well and help you fill your cup back up. I guess the only real way to know would be to try
I couldn't imagine having to handle caregiving with more than one person. I have the utmost respect that you are able to accomplish that. I'm sorry to hear your siblings are not helping you much. I'm very much in the same boat on that one. That in itself is rather frustrating.

Okay that's good to hear that it is possible to actually have some sort of dating life and that you're able to make it work. Is it hard for you to be in the moment when you're on the date? I feel like it would be rather difficult to not have caretaking at the front of my mind. On the other hand, it sounds like such a breath of fresh air to not have to worry about it for a little while haha. I feel like it would take a very caring person to understand the situation and still want to be a part of their life. But I know there are people like that out there, just gotta find them :)
Thats understandable. What do you find is the leading factor in not being able to date while being a care giver? The time constraint?
Oh man..... Being a women on a dating app in todays world just seems terrible. My heart goes out to you on that. There are some big time weirdo's out there. Men today just are not what they used to me hahaha
Wow........ I'm so sorry to hear that. This is baffling to me. How could he leave you in your time of need? Couples are supposed to be a team. Yeah, shit can get difficult, but you're supposed to help each other through it. Not throw everything away because its "to overwhelming and can't handle the drama". Im sure that on top of everything else you were going through just made it that much more challenging. Guess he showed his true colors....
Thats incredibly tragic.... I wish there were words to help but I know there isn't. I really hope life turns around for you and becomes all you want it to be. There is still a lot of life for you left to live. I hope with all i have that it does not end for you alone in a garbage heap. You'll make it through :)
Thanks.
I’d say at one point I considered myself a good catch, but sole caregiving has changed me in ways where I’m not so confident I’ll ever be able to cohabitate again🤦

Hope your fairing better👍
Oh my! I am sorry. That sounds challenging. I work as a home health care worker only about 25hrs a week. That feels like a lot to me, I can't imagine how exhausted you must be. Hope you find enough balance in life to find a partner to share your life with if you seek that. Your father is lucky to have you.
I hate when caretaking for elderly is compared to being a parent. The kids grow up and you don’t need to constantly bathe them, cook for them, drive them places Etc.

The elder parents just get worse and need more help over time. Kids need less help. It’s so frustrating
Respite care is usually where a worker can come stay for an extended period of time or even to accept your loved one into a nursing home for a temporary time period. The VA actually gave me some time for him in a nursing home before when I had to care for my Dad before he passed.
Thanks for the kind words! I’m glad I could help somewhat! Just gotta find the person who wants to put the work in. I knew right off the bat it wasn’t going to be usual, and there was adjustment on both ends, but I can’t imagine it being any other way. I would have missed out on so much awesomeness!! I wish you, and everyone, the absolute best. Everyone in this subreddit works so damn hard and deserves happiness!
I don’t regret helping my parents and would do it again if time repeated itself. That said, it’s very eye opening to see a side of your family that shows how little they care.
It definitely can! Look for either a homebody type who is content staying in most of the time or someone who is used to pursuing their own interests independently. 

My boyfriend tours for work and it turns out long-distance dating strategies work pretty well with my caregiver obligations. Some things you can do separately together: Group session on Spotify lets you listen simultaneously to each other’s picks; Stream a show or movie at the same time and annoyingly text commentary; take turns picking something to read for “book club” and compare notes.
What a good point you just made: "the only real way to know is to try".

That's so true. I shouldn't have immediately went to the negative side on that, at least without seeing potential positives. 

You should try, at least then you won't have any regrets about what ifs.

Good luck to you. It would be really awesome if you found a loving partner in all this and I really hope you do. It is entirely possible that you have a great outcome.
It was hard during the first few years of me being trying to be social again because I felt guilty being out instead of at home with them. But I knew nighttime was the easiest part of the day since there isn’t as much required in terms of “active”care, so if I did go out all my dad really had to do was change a diaper or two. 

Before I got an Apple Watch, I would just let the person know why I was checking my phone so often (panicked that every notification/ring was going to be something bad) and they knew my situation ahead of time. BUT it has gotten easier to let myself enjoy the moment I am in, so it just takes a little time and getting yourself to remember that you matter too and deserve to have some fun/a break in whatever form it comes, for however long (or short) that it is.
I work and study, and still have to take care of my dad on the side… I just don’t have the time to date. It’s very lonely
He has his own family difficulties and mental health, also working on a PhD so when he was visiting me it was his vacation and he needed to recharge rather than be drained more. He actually WAS extremely helpful and supportive, until suddenly he wasn’t. kind of get it, you have to advocate for your own mental health. But I still miss him a lot. My grandmother who had severe dementia died last month. I figured out what I could actually do on my own. I am still debating whether to reach out to him again. I don’t NEED him. But I felt that he made my life better. idk.
Thank you. I needed this message of hope
tonight.
I can totally relate. Even when you aren’t doing the hands on care, the mental load is always there gnawing at you. I feel like I’m being traumatized by it actually, and I have a medical degree and should be used to stuff like this. I think it’s the 24/7/365 that does it. It’s worse that I have a sister who won’t pitch in and instead makes it more stressful.
It is difficult but I find a way to make it work. At first, I was indeed very exhausted. I think ive adapted to it now and just kind of make it work. I hope so as well. Thank you for your kind words :) i very much appreciate them.
Thank you for letting me know that! Ill for sure look into it to see if thats something that might work for my dad and I. I wish there was a manual with all these options for help in it xD
Thats a view of things i never thought of really. There are so many ways to have dates outside of being physically in person like what you listed there. It allows you to still do activities with each other without being next to one another. If do find something this would be a great thing to implement. Thank you for opening my eyes to this side of things!
Wow yeah you're a busy girl. I work full time as well but i couldn't imagine having school to deal with also. I agree, it is extremely lonely. Caregiving is hard, but even harder when you're alone. Hell, half the time I'd go for a damn hug 😂 let alone a full date haha. It's hard to live a life without intimacy and be happy.
Even still, sometimes just being with the person you love is a recharge. As a person he should of been able to find his own time to recharge if he needed it. Not only for just this situation, but for life in general. I believe if people really care, they will figure out a way to make things work. Im very sorry to hear about your grandmother though :( I cant imagine the pain you are feeling. Honestly, to me it sounds like you deserve better. If he didnt see your value then, he wont now. Find someone who see's it and refuses to let it go.
You’re so welcome! I really hope you have a positive experience and at least find some good companionship and fun even if it doesn’t always turn out to be love! 💜
Ohh tell me about it!!! I’m reaching the point of killing for a hug 😂
Thank you. Her mind was gone a long time before. we just carried her to the finish line. She was the primary caregiver of 30 years for my disabled uncle. We have to get his situation settled so we can go back to normal life. I haven’t worked (for pay) in over two years.
I very much appreciate that :) Im always up for meeting new people so at the very least i might gain a new friend. That will be my mindset going into it!
Maybe we can start a bounty hunter group. But instead of just money, we are required genuine hugs as payment too  xD . Call it something like "hugs for thugs" lmfao!
