This question will sound horrible (or alt least sound horrible to those who aren’t caregivers).  How old is she?  If she messes with her eyes and blinds herself will she be blinded for the rest of her life that may be 5 years or more, or if you don’t do the surgery will she slowly lose sight, but that progression could take 10 years?

Anesthesia can also impact her state of mind permanently, I’d talk to the neurologist/geriatric provider about that as well.  Or consult with a palliative care provider.

Sadly our culture has us programmed to think we must fix every medial issue with pills or surgery, and not to is cruel. I truly believe that at a certain stage it becomes cruel to put our loved ones through these procedures.

I wish you peace whatever you decide.
There was a recent study that showed cataract surgery lowered dementia risk, so it does seem to worthwhile to try to get done, depending on your mom's condition. Here's the article that I saw https://newsroom.uw.edu/news/study-cataract-surgery-linked-lessened-dementia-risk

Your mom's physician is correct to bring up concerns about her messing with her incisions, however. How far along is her dementia? If she's at the point where surgery would do more harm than good, I would listen to her doctor.
The surgery and recovery went well, but I don’t know if she was in stage 5 yet.  Very much in stage 4 at the least.  Was showing signs of stage 6, but those symptoms might have other family drama causes.

One warning though, the “Denial of Symptoms” part of stage 5 was in full force with my relative.  After their cataracts were fixed it didn’t mean she could mentally process everything she was seeing.  I stealth tested her off and on for a while and her vision was fine.

What my relative would do is attempt to blame every time she misidentified a person, couldn’t remember a word she was reading, etc. on her eyes not working.  Until we caught on (we were still giving her a lot of the benefit of the doubt) we wondered if the cataract surgery actually improved things.  

If you do go through with it, keep in mind you might be dealing with similar for a while.
My MIL had cataract surgery shortly after she was diagnosed, probably stage 3 to 4. Absolutely impossible to have her do the post op care on her own. She either "just put the drops in" and of course, hadn't put them in at all or used half a bottle of eye drops in a day. So unless someone is there to administer all post op care, if it were me I would not have the surgery done. But, I would listen to your gut and take the advice of the doctor.
My mom had surgery then got a drop in eye pressure causing a stroke in her eye. After going to monthly visits where they stuck a needle in her eye then drained fluid off her optic nerve she completely lost the vision in that eye. In Hindsight I would not have the fluid drain but the (each appointment was 3.5 hr wait) cataract surgery I would have done. My mother was allergic to the antibiotic eye drops (cipro) which set off the chain of effects. Be sure the eye surgeon knows their stuff because there are not enough geriatric certified doctors. The attitude is “she isn’t going to live much longer anyway” and it pisses me off. 😡
If she can sit still and follow post op procedures.
I can't comment in regards to the procedure itself however her ability to tolerate the installation of eye drops for several weeks post procedure will factor in as well.  Do you think she will respond positively to the instillation of antibiotic and anti-inflammatory drops etc. 2-4 times a day following the surgery?
She is 71. I think that’s the best way to think of it honestly. Her doctor said that he would check her again next year but glasses will help her greatly at this point
This is a great study, but as her mom is stage 5 dementia it is doubtful cataract surgery would lower mom’s risk or progression at this point.  If she were stage 2 or 3 there would probably be some benefit and less risk.
In this case it sounds like they'd be closing the barn door when the cow's already watching Netflix through the neighbor's window.
No, she fights me on everything. She won’t even change her shirt or take a shower anymore. Constantly arguing about anything anyone suggests
