As someone who has a long family history of dementia, I have the same fear as you.  I was told I can't for sure stop it.

But you could try eating well, exercising, staying a good weight, keeping stress down, maintaining a good sleep schedule, qnd staying happy.

I read dementia was lower amongst populations that took care of their health better.  Think those populations were called blue zones.
I'm no expert, but what I have gleaned from my husband's medical providers includes good social interactions and learning new things.  Keeping your brain active is not about doing puzzles, it's about learning new things.  So make good friends and have interesting hobbies.  Be open to improving yourself mentally and emotionally.  Challenge yourself to keep learning.  All in addition to maintaining good physical condition.
While it may not produce miracles check out the book The End of Alzheimers by Dale Bredesen. There is research about decreasing systemic inflammation through diet and getting adequate exercise as a means of reducing risk.
Thank you everyone for your answers, I will do my best to keep up with my body and my brain ♡
Avoid drugs that have high anticholinergic properties, which include some antidepressants, antipsychotics, and allergy meds.

For a list, see this website - [https://corumpharmacy.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/Anticholinergic-cognitive-burden-scale.pdf](https://corumpharmacy.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/Anticholinergic-cognitive-burden-scale.pdf)
Good diet, play puzzle games (mentally challenging tasks), stay physically active. You have to do it for rest of your life, everyday. It is tough, I know.
I had my grandfather, several uncles, an aunt, and my dad.  However, my grandfather was married and divorced several times. Only his children from his marriage to my grandmother had it.  Whereas his offspring from other marriages didn't. 

On my mother's side, one uncle has it.  

I have been told diet and exercise.  Vitamins and supplements, especially those that work on cardiovascular and cognitive functions.  All those things should help either stave off dementia till you much older or lessen the severity.  

I know science is working on something, I hope they come up with soon.  It's disappointing whenever I hear of new cases of dementia from people.  Since my father and uncle (by marriage) died from it last year, I have had two friends tell me now their parent has been diagnosed with it.
I've been reading up on this too because my mother has dementia. There are no guarantees, but it does seem like keeping your body and mind active and eating well can help to some extent. I really hope that there are some research advances in the next 20-25 years. I have this huge fear I might have inherited her crappy genes.
Have the same concern and from reading, my understanding is to stay active both physically and mentally along with a good diet.

My dad had dementia and passed in 2018 and my mom is getting this way and is 88, my dad lived to be 89.


Here is a good resource.

https://www.brainandlife.org/subscribe
Nothing can outright prevent dementia. There are several factors and causes believed to be responsible for dementia, and the weighting of importance for each of these is still broadly unknown. There are several correlations that seem to exist between habits of individuals and occurrence of dementia. Will following these tips totally mitigate your risk? Probably not, but if you are interested, here they are. 

* Learning a second language. (not just for dementia, but also to increase neuroplasticity and resilience to other types of brain trauma like strokes)
* There is some evidence that lower BMI = lower incidence of dementia.
* The more physical activity, the less frequent the cases of dementia.
* Lower sugar intake = less dementia risk (some places have called dementia / Alzheimer's Type III Diabetes, but I haven't researched this specifically)
* Consistently getting an adequate amount of sleep. It seems as though our brains are able to self-repair in some sense during sleep. Inadequate amounts of sleep are insufficient for this process to be carried out properly.
* Maintaining social connections and experiences.
It’s usually not actually genetic. There are only one or two relatively rare kinds of dementia which are hereditary. Alzheimer’s is not. You’re probably not at any increased risk. Improving cardiovascular health is probably the best thing you can do to reduce the risk of strokes, etc.
I have heard it summed up: If it’s good for your heart it’s good for your brain.
Another thing I forgot to mention, new research is also indicating that digestive health could be a factor. Having healthy probiotics in your digestive system can help. I've started making fermented foods at home, like yogurt and sauerkraut again. You can also buy probiotic supplements.
Also maintaining social connections and interactions, and if you have hearing loss, get a hearing aid.
Have you taken a dna test to verify you are a carrier for late-onset Alzheimer's disease, called apolipoprotein E (APOE)? My mom’s neurologist was helpful in giving me some research about it as I asked the question. 

23 and me has a health dna kit that you can take. Costs around $200. After seeing my abuela and mother go through this i decided to take a test. I tested negative as a carrier. Also tested my daughter, she was also negative. Along with exercise and mental stimulus, try this approach to put yourself at ease, but if you do come back as a carrier, it would be wise to start with a long term care insurance that includes memory care and **not disclose** your results.
I agree with this.  Stay away from all psyche drugs.  Benzodiazepines caused mine and I'm only 61.  They caused a seizure and then the seizure damaged my brain.  I've been unable to work for 10 years now.  Plus, dementia runs in my family on my dad's side.
I really don't think getting this test is helpful. The APOE gene has one "flavor," APOE4, that is associated with increased risk of Alzheimer's disease(AD)  but having this does not inevitably lead to getting AD.  Also not having it does not mean you will not get AD. So having this test is not really very informative. 

I think the advice everyone else is giving is the way to go: exercise, eat a heart healthy diet, socialize, do activities that  you enjoy. Most people have AD in their family history, so this should not be a source of excess concern.
