I agree that he needs to be in a memory care unit. 

Meanwhile, you have to learn some new principles. 1, just be agreeable. If he says he's George Washington, well, roll with it. This leads to #2, You cannot reason with the unreasonable. This is a harsh principle but will help enormously. There's just no point in any arguing. 3, We were all taught never to lie to our parents. This rule is now wrong for you. If he starts fretting about his car, but you've sold it so he can't drive, well, be calm and creative. "Oh, Dad, it's in the shop. Carburetor troubles again."

Now we quickly jump to 4, which is distraction. Like dealing with a stubbornly curious toddler, distract your father by any plot at all. My very pious mother would easily distract if I told her naughty jokes. Then she'd relax with laughter. Distract with snacks. Distract with "What kind of bird is that?". Just anything when they are being cantankerous. 

Finally, 5. Your Dad won't remember what you have said. He will remember how you make him feel. Don't argue, don't make regrets. Be gentle, sweet, loving, and accepting. And hear that same story for the 6th time this hour. 

Also, he may have periods of sundowning. He'll be plumb off his rocker, angry, aggressive, and potentially violent. Please remember that this is his illness acting out, not him. Keep yourself calm amid the storms. 

Good luck on your odyssey. You'll learn a lot and not regret it, though there will be sorrows. It's hard to watch a beautiful mind get destroyed. 

Ps, know that a UTI or constipation can cause him to go into drastic, sudden levels of dementia. As soon as the problem is fixed, he'll go back to his previous level of dementia. You'll have a lot of funny, poignant stories to tell later.
I'm sorry you are experiencing this.  A former teacher who recently nursed her husband through dementia (to his death) strongly recommended the book "The 36 Hour Day".  She said that was her godsend in thinking through, understanding, and taking appropriate action in the face of decline.  Your situation is not going to get any better and, as you're realizing, you will need to adapt and do things differently to get better outcomes.  Posting the question here is an excellent step.  Keep reaching out, keep asking, keep researching, and take care of yourself, as well.  Plan for a marathon, not a sprint, and pace yourself.
I am sorry. It may be time for a dementia care unit for him. Hugs
[https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/play-your-way-sane/202004/improvisations-benefits-people-dementia#:\~:text=The%20Memory%20Ensemble%20uses%20improvisational,and%20saying%20yes%20to%20ideas](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/play-your-way-sane/202004/improvisations-benefits-people-dementia#:~:text=The%20Memory%20Ensemble%20uses%20improvisational,and%20saying%20yes%20to%20ideas).  
it seems it works to kind of go with the flow
unfortunately, you cannot be with him 24 hours a day. your body will break trying to get him out of the floor 10 times a day long before he will be able to stay in bed or not be confused/aggressive. my mom had a stroke a couple of years ago and like you, i struggle with  having to repeat myself and her not listening but i also have another person living here who can help me which it sounds like you might not have. as much as it pains me to say it, and without knowing the state of your nursing home system, the safest place for him might be in a facility since he is a fall risk and getting aggressive with you. it wouldn't necessarily be the best thing to accept that this is the safest route for you in terms of your mental health but a lot of people have had to make the same decision.
There are a number of youtube videos on that subject. Here's one site that has some. https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCj11e54k1tqNhehq15sfI_g
 Teepa Snow has a number of videos
https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=teepa+snow+dementia
Fully agree with everyone saying that you should just go with the flow. He says the sky is orange, you say “oh yeah? Neat”. Do not argue that he is wrong, that will cause (as you’ve seen) distress, agitation, etc. 

My dad also was a mover and if you are there with him and he announces he’s going home, just agree and say something like, “sounds like a plan. But let’s wait here for a little longer, I want to finish my drink”. Repeat ad infinitum 

A bed rail is also really helpful as it prevents him from rolling out accidentally and it is a LOT harder to get out of a bed that way.
Are you following the dementia thread also?
The is no convincing a person with dementia of anything, no building a case of any kind, because they have dementia. By the time you've made your point, they've forgotten what point you're making. I think the best you can do is try to speak calmly, get comfortable lying your ass off, and try to figure out what works for them. My mother, for instance, wouldn't accept help when asked, "Do you need help?" but would sometimes accept help when asked, "May i help you?"
Get out old pictures and have him look at them and tell you who the people are in them or what he can remember about them.  A lot of elderly dementia patients have surprising recall about their childhood or earlier lives.   Bonus is its a good activity that he can do in bed with you sitting alongside.
Is he on any medications that may have restlessness as a side effect? Sometimes a medication can cause that "can't sit still" feeling.  Have you talked to his doctor about this problem? Maybe he could change his meds or prescribe something to make him a bit less restless.
Thank you for all the helpful tips and reply in general - this is what I find so difficult to do or even know what to do.
