Oh. Boy.

My dad had an empty bag of dog treats on his side table, I asked him if he gave them all to the dog and he said no, he ate them. I told them they were dog treats and he didn't believe me.

We've got some disposable plastic toilet seat covers, kind of like the kind you would take to the park, to help keep my dad's toilet.. cleanish. I keep them on a shelf in his bedroom in an old butter tub. The other day he comes out of his room with four or five little blue packets in his hand and I said what do you got there dad? He said I think it's butter. I said well what are you going to do with that and he said I'm going to eat it! I told him it wasn't butter, but I could get him some butter if he wanted, and he asked me now why the hell would I want to eat butter?

One night I was in bed and I rolled over to check the camera, and I'm half asleep and he's got this long white rope or something I can't quite tell what he's doing. So I go in there and he's got the entire packet of adult wipes busted open like a bag of chips and piles of wipes just everywhere. I said what are you doing Dad and he said I'm folding up the toilet paper and I said well why are you folding up the toilet paper it's 1:30 in the morning what are you doing and he said I'm going to eat it! I said why are you going to eat the toilet paper? Are you hungry? He said no I'm not hungry and why the hell would I eat toilet paper!

One morning I found his oximeter completely broken apart. Check the cameras to see what he had done. He busted it open and pried the finger pads out with a spoon and put them each in his mouth. He thought it was yogurt?

The best though was when he found the baggie of pot cookies and ate them all. THAT was a fun day. He had the giggles and was more coherent and lively than he'd been in a long time. 

Gotta laugh, just gotta roll with it.
Yes! I give my uncle magazine's and coupons to look at or cut pictures out of but I never suspected he would be tearing out the pages and eating them! 

He's also eaten unpopped popcorn kernels lol. Now I'm constantly watching things around him. You have to have a sense of humor dealing with all this craziness.
Completely. Laugh when you can. Dementia is many things all at once. Tragic, horrifying, hysterical, frustrating, fascinating, etc. 

My husband and I laugh at his mother's exploits frequently (and indulge in gallows humor). We have to. Because we know the infuriating and frustrating parts are coming as well.
Haha your dad is a character!       Snacks,  tasty snacks....   lol...
Oh gosh, even the pictures...   Keep you on your toes!   :)
Absolutely! He's at that stage where he will try to eat things that make no sense.    Best of luck to you❤
