Would it be possible to set up a few bird seed-feeders within view of her window? If that's too messy, you could always try hummingbird feeders. Does she have a history with knitting or crocheting? Often times senior centers can coordinate activities for the elderly.
My mom has memory issues and she really loves paint by number stuff. Because of the numbers she doesn't have to worry about where she started or stopped, she just looks at the grid and figures out what the next color is. The easy ones have nice big spaces that don't require a steady hand.

If she can focus enough to do a single crochet granny square she can eventually stitch together tiny projects to make a big one. There are uncomplicated patterns and ergonomic and larger hooks that are great for stiff hands.

Similarly, there are Charities that are always looking for baby hats and very simple baby blankets for both human and animal babies... both of those will have patterns she doesn't need a strong memory for. Whether or not the pieces are any good at the end, if they turn out while you can donate them to the charity, if they don't you can tell her that you're donating them and simply get rid of them or unravel them and wind up the yarn for her to use again.
We bought the MIL a Facebook Portal. She loves the photo album aspect. Kids, grandkids all can load photos remotely. And you can make video calls. Just touch to answer. She LOVES it. Also allows us to put eyes on here when we can’t be there.  It’s not a hobby but it brings much joy.
Have you tried books on tape? My granny was confused by audible but I got her a boom box and some old fashioned tapes and she could use those, bought on ebay.
Is she doing this because she’s losing some urinary continence?
Paint with water books-- they are not at all like the ones I had as a kid! 

Folding colorful washcloths to "help".

Pop-its

Task or Work boxes (simple tasks in boxes, we use them in classrooms for students with intellectual disabilities) 

Sorting silverware
Not your question, but re 'can't be there all the time'.    We installed a bunch of ring cameras at my mom's so we can watch her.   I have each camera set to a different alert noise.  A lack of alert noises sets of my mental alarms because it may indicate she fell.   

They've come in handy.  I've chased predatory sales people away from her door, stopped her from doing dangerous stuff, ensured she took her meds, etc.

How about audio books?  my mom likes bingo and with covid our local tv station has had it once a week.  mom also likes watching baseball and listening to music.  She didn't like puzzles and can't see well enough to read anymore.
