Just went through this recently. I’m so sorry you’re going through this! I’d ask if there is a need for a driving eval. Usually an OT will conduct if the doc requests. How to best support you mom (celebrating her abilities, not focusing on her disability). Types of medication they suggest and how they work. Suggestions for support groups for caregivers locally. How to best support her through the diagnosis process. Other things to look out for that your mom may miss (UTI is a common thing that can be missed by someone with dementia and cause a lot of temporary problems, warning signs, etc.). What to expect in the upcoming months regarding tests, appointments, etc.
Personally, I would not have a list of questions.  This is all brand new and can be overwhelming.  She will have regular follows up with the doctor, I assume you would go with her and you can ask questions as new things start happening.  I would not bring up the driving issue as it might upset your Mother.  This is something you need to monitor closely and make the decision to take the keys or disable the car when the time comes. Don't count on getting a "stage", likely no one will give that to you right now.  This is a process, a very long process.  She is maintaining right now so just be there to support her, note any changes which you can report on in following appointments.  Good luck, so sorry this is happening to your Mom and family.
Sudden memory loss is not really consistent with dementia.  Stress/anxiety and acute illness are more commonly associated with that.  Her intact instrumental ADLs are also not typical in dementia.

Regarding the MRI, everyone has chronic microvascular ischemia later in life so it greatly depends on the severity. 

The neuropsychologist will administer hours of objective tests so no need to worry too much about what to ask her.  

It's important to note that the neuropsychologist should not technically diagnose and this should be done by the neurologist using the neuropsych results as a part of the memory work up.

Hopefully, her issues are fixable and I wish her the best!
If you feels she is at the beginning of dementia has she had tests done? Is she still deemed competent to ensure her Will and personal directive and power of attorney up to date. This is important before she is considered incompetent. If she is given a Dementia diagnosis she will have to stop driving. A vehicle is very much a weapon. I would be asking the Dr on their opinion, I am sure he/she has been asked many times in their profession.
Where do they rate her on the Fast scale?

What type of dementia do they think she has?

What support/resources are available now?

What support/resources should you get lined up for the near future, and the far future?

is she still competent to make financial and other decisions on her own?

Should she be put on any of the meds intended to delay progress of the disease or ease symptoms?  
Her GP is Dr X, will they send a  copy of the testing and diagnosis and recommendations to that person? 

Are there any concerns about other meds or conditions she has that could make things worse?
That's great. What kind of work does she still do? If she is still safe and not make too many mistakes then probably good for her to continue. Will she qualify for disability if she can no longer work? Also is she on any meds? The Dr should recommend medication that may help. It's so good you are being proactive as too many people wait until the late stages.
[deleted]
OMG, that will be very difficult for you.  I will say that, from my experience with 4 neurologist, they are often not very forthcoming with information as far as telling you what to expect. Maybe you will be lucky and you will have one who will lay things out for you. If I were you I would just do your own research, lots of information out there.  Every person is different and every disease progression happens differently.  Also you should start planning on what you will do when she can't continue to live alone which may happen quicker than you think. My husband is not allowed near the stove as he forgets he is using it leading to some interesting outcomes, also hasn't been able to drive in two years.  He seemed to be fine driving then had an accident because he didn't remember what gear he was in.  Sometimes a change, that can be dangerous, happens seemingly over night.  Sorry you are on this journey.
Let me add, you need to get her to an Elder Attorney if you haven't already.  There needs to be POA's in place, advanced directives etc.  The attorney can also help with how to protect assets and other things.  I would also plan on the future when you may need to either move closer to her or bring her to you.  The time when she can't really take care of herself can come on fairly quickly because this disease can move fast at times.  Also, being so far away you won't have a clear picture of what is happening with her.
Adding to this! Alternatively, if you cannot retain an attorney or there is no need (no assets) you can easily get a POA notarized and same with the advanced healthcare directive. You can print out the forms and fill them out at home, then have them signed in front of a notary. You can do it as long as your mom is still aware of what she’s signing. With the things she is still able to do, sounds like she’s still pretty aware / lucid. I’m dealing with this in a later stage for my mom and I wish I knew this sooner. But these are two important documents that were suggested to be in place by an attorney I talked to. I’m sorry you’re going through this and many props to you for being proactive about the situation.
