>I'm a diagnosed hypochondriac

Hmm, so, there's your answer.
The irony of this is that assuming the worst despite there being the possibility of there being more likely and less severe causes is textbook Generalized Anxiety Disorder. I have ADHD and anxiety and your bullet points pretty much describe a day ending in y for me. 

Is your doc a therapist or psychiatrist? If not, It sounds like some consistent therapy would be a good step to try at this point.
In my experience, people with dementia are not the ones that diagnose themselves. Again, only my experience, but self awareness of one’s decline is atypical.

Sorta like the saying that only crazy people think they are sane…
There are many medical reasons for this. Definitely keep digging. Dementia is far less likely than something like MS, thyroid problems, or even ADHD
Sounds like ADHD or thyroid. Dementia is dad nor than brain fog and forgetfulness…more like repeating yourself constantly and forgetting the steps to something like making a cup of coffee.
Get a calcium and PTH blood test, make sure it isn’t your parathyroid. Look up hyperparathyoidism, see if symptoms fit.
Fibromyalgia also causes this which is what I have. And a whole lot of other things can cause brain fog. Burnout can cause brain fog
For the record, the youngest person to ever be diagnosed with dementia was 36. It is incredibly unlikely that you have that.
ADHD? I went through the same fear and realised that the older i got the worse my memory seemed to become, but then i got diagnosed with ADHD.
Did you have covid? A lot of people have reported a type of brain fog that can last months afterwards. Otherwise say it sounds more like side effects of depression and anxiety. I had severe depression years ago in uni. I'd read the same paragraph over and over and over and not retain anything. I couldn't focus enough to even follow a basic tv show plot or conversation.
Dementia is not likely. There are other causes of the brain fog in addition to the causes you listed. I had massive brain fog and depression. It was an outcome of leaky gut syndrome. I encourage you to see an integrated physician or natural path. Brain gut connection is not widely known in western medicine.
I feel this often. I also work with the population and it makes it 10x worse because sometimes my days are so chaotic. I am on Zoloft and it helps me so much relax
I've always had those symptoms and finally got diagnosed with adhd inattentive type after my teen daughter was diagnosed.  Maybe you should get assessed.  Have you always had issues focusing?  Tendency to daydream etc?  Issues at school and work?
It is EXTREMELY uncommon, like < .0001%
No bro you don't. You have anxiety and worry too much like I did at your age. For me I swore I was developing schizophrenia because I had uncles on both sides of the family that had it with much of the same symptoms your having. 

It's just an anxiety disorder, get healthy, eat right, exercise, sleep right, get checked for sleep apnea and your life will get better - if your still depressed and or anxious after about a year and your doing all that get on some meds for about a year and no more to reboot your brain then get off the meds.  This is what helped me get over anxiety, I still have anxious episodes but it's completely manageable now.
A lot of people experience some memory issues without having dementia.

It is unlikely that what you have is dementia.
Good lord this is like the second one this week on this sub!
Lol, about that...

I'm a diagnosed hypochondriac, but it took them 5 years to correctly diagnose me with that, along with OCD.  They still haven't gotten me on the correct meds yet.  Point is, being run through that system for so long with so poor results has me looking elsewhere.
I'll second this and a food allergy test as well. Dairy puts me in a hell of a brain fog, and I just recently became allergic to it in my 30s.
That's interesting.  Google says the youngest is 23.  I know it's rare, though.
God, I wish I knew.  I ended up with a godawful sore throat, and my wife said it hurt to breathe, both around the time of the name-forgetting episode, but our at-home tests all came back negative.
the ocd will definitely do this to you. This worry could all just be the OCD.  

Then it will spin you out more and more and you'll exacerbate your issues unintentionally. If you haven't already, try ERP therapy.  If you don't have a therapist nearby that provides ERP, there's an app you can try, NOCD that can connect you with therapists.
Good point!
