 I have a DNR. My adult children know my wishes.  I have a stash of RX meds that should I need to, I can go that route.
Yes. My husband and I both have DNRs and living wills. Comfort care only. 

We also have agreements between the two of us. If one of us is diagnosed with something we don't want to live with we have plans. 

Like hiking on the ocean cliffs that are notorious for rogue waves that sweep people out to sea. Or deciding to try heroin. Basically, anything that would result in death but the other spouse could never be considered a suspect for it.

It's tough because we live in a right-to-die state but people die long, painful deaths because of all the red tape.
I have a DNR as well as no food water etc.  BUT, I also know my children could over rule that so I will opt to kill myself if I am ever diagnosed.  I am taking care of my husband of 48 years, who was diagnosed with dementia a few years ago.  My life is basically over as it is dedicated to taking care of him.  All of our plans gone, poof.  Yep, will not be a burden to my children and honestly am not the least bit interested in staying in a body with a brain which no longer functions.
Having a good friend or family member have medical and financial power of attorney is key.  Why?  Mom made extensive plans for her own dementia future.  We so respected and admired her awareness and planning.  She had been through it with her own mother, after all.    

Then when dementia got to the point where she needed assisted living, she denied she needed help.  She insisted she could still drive, though her doctor contacted the RMV to revoke her license.  Luckily, my sister had POA, so we were able to get her the care she needs over her objections.  

The point is, when you have dementia, you don't know how incompetent you are.  It's a gradual decline, so you don't notice the changes and to you everything is normal and fine.  You need a trusted person who will make the call for you that you can no longer live independently.
I have an advanced directive but intend to consult a lawyer at some point to see what other more robust options might be available to me (the advanced directive paperwork explicitly says it is not a DNR). I'd like to be able to follow through with assisted suicide if I'm ever diagnosed. There's an organization in Switzerland called Dignitas that assists with this (if you're curious, the book In Love by Amy Bloom details the legal and emotional journey she and her husband went on to be able to do this). I don't have kids, don't know if I will, but I can't stand the idea of my theoretical kids or my real husband having to take care of me this way, all while slowly losing "me." It's endlessly frustrating to me that people who have likely never had to care for someone with dementia get to decide what we're allowed to do with our own lives. I get that there are absolutely ethical concerns here and no one wants blood on their hands, but it's literally impossible to do this in the US. There is no amount of legal wrangling I could engage in if I didn't have 6 months or less to live, and of course by then it's far too late for someone with dementia.
I haven't had time! Except to start legal papers so that if I go first (unlikely), she gets my estate in a trust so it doesn't nuke her Medicaid.
I'd say put something in place for meds to help keep under control, not violent, angry, or even agitated.

The life my mother has when she is not on the meds is so distressing to her, and at what cost? She's not even actually lucid, and she just gets more upset that she can't go home.

It's brutal!
I highly recommend Preparing to Die by Andrew Holocek. Excellent book about caregiving but also preparing for your own death.
The thing is, for my mom, she always said she would do it, but as dementia took hold of her, she was convinced she was not sick and was in control of everything.

So she would have had to have wasted good days and done it while she was still mostly well, because once sick, she no longer thinks she has a reason to. She can't process at the level required to make that decision anymore. It's a catch 22..
That makes me think of the movie "Still Alice."
Same here.
Same. My husband and I have what we call The Ol' Yeller Pact. If not literally, then at least we've agreed to place the other in the position to fall off that cliff and look the other way.
Likewise. Took care of my mom during her last 4+ years. I've documented my plans elsewhere but basically asphyxiation with nitrogen gas. If I can get an NP certification fairly quickly (currently an LVN) I'll look into which meds are prescribed for assisted suicide & see about obtaining same. Already have DNR/DNI orders in place. I'm single, no kids, no spouse & no interest in acquiring same. I'm keeping busy with school & nursing but in reality I checked out emotionally in 2008 when my mom died.
This is a struggle I've had..I've attempted a couple of times.. the next will be the last.
Yep. But all of this is so hard for other people to understand. Dementia is literally a fate worse than death.
It is such a hard disease to undergo for the family and caregivers and the emotional tole it takes is tremendous.  I am not sure how I will get through the next few years as I watch my husband decline.  I hope you are able to find some joy in your life and are able to heal from the experience of taking care of your Mother.
I feel if you have a terminal illness it is your right to leave under your own terms.  If you are having a difficult life and don't want to go on I think you should take a beat or two and really give it some deep thought.  I was beat and pummeled and tortured and sexually assaulted all before I was a teen.  As a teen and into adulthood I struggled every day, but made it through and had a very good life.  So, anyone contemplating taking their life because of sadness and loneliness and hurt just know things can get better.
I'm diagnosed with dementia, they haven't determined which kind.
I am so, so  sorry.  I am giving you a virtual hug and will keep you in my thoughts. Please know you matter and whatever you decide will be right for you. If you ever want to chat feel free to message me.  Peace, love, hugs.
Thank you
