They call it second childhood for a reason.  My mom claims she has no friends, but I know her friends and enjoy talking to them.  They understand, tolerate her dementia quirks and are very kind.  

Your mom is acting like a child, jealous of your attention to others. My mom's done similar things, leaving conversations abruptly when she's not the center of attention.  

I don't really have a solution.  If I bend over backwards to focus on her, she gets mad that I'm being condescending and treating her like a child.  If I treat her like an adult, she gets outraged that the whole world doesn't revolve around her.  

The funny thing is, my husband really does treat her like a child.  And she thinks he's wonderful.  Sigh.
Lol!  My MIL does the same!  She can't stand even the slightest pleasantries.  No big surprise that she keeps getting turfed from different dinner groups.  They finally paired her up with a deaf lady.
My mother does this, too!

I see other residents socializing and I talk with them about their family members and I make a huge fuss over the sweet pet dog that one lady has with her at all times.   My mother is pretty suspicious of everyone and asks in a demanding tone, "Just how do you know all these people?"

Having a loved one with dementia has been a learning experience- I thought it was just about wandering and forgetfulness.  Oh, it does a number on moods, too.
I have. My friend when he doesn't get his own way week get angry and say things like maybe I should just shoot myself.  The doctors don't care, etc. The doctors call it sundowning. By mid afternoon he starts to get irritable, doesn't understand what's going and why he can't go home.  He forgets. He called me 4 or 5 times from the hospital yesterday because he couldn't find the nurse call button. I had to call the nurses station at the hospital to check on him. He didn't remember that they had been in and called me in a panic. When I talk to him in the morning he doesn't remember much of the previous night and is very reasonable to talk to.

Your mom doesn't mean it. Don't leave, giver her your live and attention as best as you are able.
When people ask what it's like taking care of a parent with dementia, I saying it's like taking care of a child.  My mother likes to show us her spit in restuarants, that's one of the reasons why I can't take her to resataurants any more. 

You're mom is throwing a fit because you are not giving her 100% of your attention in a space where there's other people, which is impossible, unrealistic and impolite.  That's something a child would do to. 

Try alone time first spend time with her, then remind her about when you shift to sharing time with others while your there to visit her.
My grandma doesn’t get jealous but she is exhibiting more teenage like behavior. She can be childish too—which is the same pretty much. She can be very rebellious or throw tantrums. Especially if we won’t “take her to see her parents.”
My mother didn't say anything like this to us, but I can tell you that my husband and I met two very nice women at my mom's assisted living facility before she moved into a nursing home. They were responsive and asked us questions... basically held a conversation, unlike my mom most days. So my husband and I would joke (not really "joke", but hopefully you understand) that we'd like to "adopt" these two nice ladies as my mother. I think in truth we meant it. So I understand where you're coming from.
What do you think is behind this childish behavior?
LOL!!! Well my mom is jealous about me talking to others but when she’s alone she seems to be a decent conversationalist. They seat her with 90 year olds who are more with it than she is and she’s only 70! But the 90 year olds aren’t picky and tolerate her well.
Yup and she says “this isn’t a social club you know!” 

Moods.. she can be blissfully happy and down for literally anything or she can he apathetic and extremely dead inside. Man, I need a nice glass of wine when I get home it takes the edge off.
I know she doesn't mean it but I need space when she acts rude to me. I come back and try again like an hour later. 

Sundowning, cool I never heard of this! Yes, she is the most irritable in the afternoon and evening! Mornings are the best time and I just realized this now.
Yes! They held a conversation, didn't complain, actually smiled! Oh I totally understand!
At a dementia training by Teepa Snow, she showed MRI's of a brain as dementia progresses over time compared to those of children as they grew older. They were similar, only in reverse. Dementia causes brain cells to progressively die, cells that dealt with impulse control, emotional stability and awareness of self and others. No wonder it seems they're becoming like children. 

[https://www.webmd.com/alzheimers/news/20030507/alzheimers-brain-similar-to-childs](https://www.webmd.com/alzheimers/news/20030507/alzheimers-brain-similar-to-childs)
I only learned the term two weeks ago while talking with a social worker at the VA hospital. Another of the social workers put me in touch with the Alzheimer's Association.  I have a telephone call scheduled for the 17th to help me learn how to deal with my friend. I don't want to make the same mistakes I made with my mom.
Thank you for responding.
You're a good friend. Thank you for showing up & caring, even when it's hard. Xo
Thank you
