Do a Google search for "Teepa Snow sexually inappropriate".     It brings up videos by dementia educator Teepa Snow and other caregiving training videos.   Hopefully one of those will be able to help.

I'd also call the Alzheimers Association jetliner at alz.org.
You are going to have to keep him inside. You can only expose yourself so many times before the police will get involved, which will be better than dealing with the father of the child he exposes himself to next. I'm sorry your neighborhood is going through this but this is something you have to handle.
I'm sorry you and your family are going though this, as I'm sure it's very difficult. I'm not sure what the best advice would be aside from talking to your neighbors.

 Is fencing an option? Perhaps he wouldn't feel the need to harass the neighbors if he can't see them.
Are your neighbors aware that he has dementia?  It seems reasonable to visit them to explain and give them your number to call if they see something inappropriate or upsetting. This might buy you an extra bit of kindness or tolerance.

However, he should not be allowed to go outside unattended.  I don't wish to be harsh, but am concerned about the risks to all involved. Although the neighbors may have some more understanding of what is happening, such behavior is disturbing and will be frightening for young children.  It's also humiliating for your father (even if he doesn't realize it.)  He also may injure himself or wander away.  If you cannot control his movements, it is time to place him somewhere where he will be safe from himself.
Unfortunately you are going to need someone to stay with him around the clock to prevent him from exposing himself to neighborhood children.  Immediately.

It is not just shocking, it is a very traumatic crime against minors. If the police get involved, a criminal record may prevent him from being placed in residential care in the future.

He might need more medication, home health aides, or residential care. Call his doctor ASAP. You or someone in your family needs to take the reins. If you let your neighbors solve this problem, no one will be happy with the results.
Sadly, it sounds like your Dad has the vascular variety of dementia. And unfortunately, the clothes stripping and sexual inappropriateness is very common with vascular dementia.

The behavior itself, you cannot stop or reason with them to stop. That part of their brain is damaged and their filter (as to what is right/wrong and appropriate/inappropriate) is gone. Lecturing, yelling at them, or punishing them will also not do anything. They cannot necessarily help that they are doing these things, and the filter is not going to come back, and the brain damage is not going to be reversed.

Biggest thing is going to have to be keeping him out of situations where he is most likely to do these things. Keep him inside when the neighbors are out. If he's doing it from a window, get the plastic/film you can put on the windows so the neighbors cannot see inside, should he be doing something inappropriate.

Sometimes, you can "redirect" them. Remove them from the situation and get them to doing something else...like watching tv, a puzzle...anything that was not what they were doing before. 

As far as family members living with him, and any caregivers that come in to help...they need to be educated about this, and understand this will happen. This is going to keep happening, and it's not something he has control of. Sometimes, if he is not so far gone, you can say something like "That is not appropriate" and then redirect him to something else. If it truly is something a family member or caregiver cannot stand, in the moment...make sure he is safe, and remove yourself from the situation for a few moments to compose yourself.

I think the worse case I dealt with as a nurse aide while working in a nursing home, was an older guy that would get handsy and say inappropriate things. His brain didn't care who. He would get handsy with female staff and residents. He got to a point we had to be aware of where he was at 100% of the time, as he got smacked multiple times by female residents he had got handsy with. He even inappropriately propositioned a 17 year old nurse aide we had working there. It got progressively worse until he passed. It was emotional for his family, as well. Until the dementia hit, he was nothing like that. He was a sweet, respectful, kind man...until dementia took all that away from him.

And while it's not sexually or clothes stripping inappropriate...there was a little old lady I helped take care of in her home. She was already pretty advanced in her dementia by the time I started working with her. And let me tell you, she could cuss enough to put a pirate to shame. Her husband would always talk about how much she had changed after getting dementia...and how she had NEVER once said a bad/vulgar word before.

Biggest thing for the family and caregivers...it's not personal. He cannot help it. He's not targeting people intentionally...outside of his brain potentially identifying female from male...and sometimes, the brain does not always care about that, either. It is not him inside his brain making these decisions. And I am pretty sure that if "he" (his pre-dementia self) were a spectator at any level of what is going on...he would be ashamed, upset, and feel very sorry. He wouldn't want this to be happening.
I think you should put him in a home.  If he gets caught doing something criminal or violent, he will not be accepted into a home later on so best get him in one now imo.  Also, I'm concerned for the safety of the female caregivers.  Do you think he may end up assaulting one of them someday?  He sounds like he's getting angrier with all the vulgar words.  Better safe than sorry imo.
Its always difficult when these disinhibitions and behaviors start.

The answer to preventing these behaviors is medication.  Specifically, Seroquel is quite effective at controlling behaviors and hallucinations if he has them as well.  

Speak with his doctors about these behaviors and they will likely agree.  Seroquel is preferable to other antipsychotics because the others commonly cause Parkinsonism in older people which can lead to bad falls which in turn accelerates the dementia.
