With my Dad it was much more strightforward. The Police found him trying to drive around a waterlogged field until he got stuck. They brought him home in a very distressed and confused state, handed me the keys (discreetly) and said not to let him drive anymore as he was obviously unfit. I hid the keys and disconnected the battery and told him the police had confiscated his license until he got his doctor and solicitor to witness that he was safe to drive. He raged and threatened to go to court, sue them etc. but never took any action. The police sent a court letter saying he could volutarily surrender his license or get a doctor to say he was fine to drive. He ignored it and so they revoked his license. This was about 2 years ago. He still occasionally says he will get his solicitor to "sort them out" but never acts on it.

Long story short, do not let him drive, tell him his licence has been taken away. The police would rather deal with an angry person with dementia than a grieving family who have lost loved relatives in an accident
There's a place on the gov website that allows you to report someone who you feel is no longer fit to drive.
https://contact.dvla.gov.uk/driver/capture_transaction_type?transaction_type_id=drivers_medical
We’re sort of going through this at the moment with my grandad. He’s 93 (I think? Or maybe 92) and if we’re completely honest shouldn’t have been driving for several years but no one ever took the plunge. He fell at the start of lockdown in 2020 and has fallen several times since then, each time making the dementia worse and his mobility now is at the point where he can barely walk 5 meters with a walking frame.

I finally but the bullet and reported him to the DVLA a couple of months back, although no one in my family knows I did it. I felt very strongly that I shouldn’t have to be the one to make that call given my dad and my aunt are both around and more involved but they both stuck to the line of thinking that he couldn’t get out ti the car so why did it matter.

Nana has now received a letter with a form to fill out to renew his license but he refuses to even accept the idea of not insuring the car this year, despite it costing over £500 (assuming he could even get insurance) and he is totally convinced that he will drive it again any day. I think nana is leaning towards just not filling it in and not telling him, with the proviso of hiding the keys etc.

As far as I know the form includes needing a doctor to certify they are safe to drive? Would it be an option for you to talk to his doctor about your concerns?
Goodness me, that sounds awful. I hope very much that the matter is taken out of our hands and that the NHS do the right thing and tell the DVLA he is not fit to drive. Thank you for commenting.
Thanks for your reply. My dad sounds just like your grandad, he absolutely sees no reason why he should not be allowed to drive and we’re just so nervous. We were able to get through to the Community Psychiatric Nurse who first visited him when he got his diagnosis 6 months ago (he hasn’t actually seen or spoken to a doctor, one hasn’t been in touch) and she passed our email highlighting our concerns about him driving onto the consultant who will be calling him tomorrow so we’re desperately hoping it goes okay. We just have no idea how a telephone medical assessment for the DVLA could possibly work. We’re very nervous that this is going to stir up all sorts of worry and upset but I know that it must be done and by the sounds of it, you and your family have been through it all and are still going through it. Thank you so much for commenting, it means a lot.
I really hope it goes ok for you. We do have the advantage that I honestly don’t think grandad could get to the car, let alone get in it (although I know with dementia some things that should be impossible seem to happen anyway). 

The issue we would have had if he was able to get to the car is even if we told him he wasn’t allowed to drive any more I don’t think he’d remember that when he next wanted to drive.

Just remember that even though it might cause your dad to be upset, possibly repeatedly, it is better than the possibility that he did get behind the wheel and cause an accident. Not that that helps with the reality of the here and now.
You are right. He’s being sent for an assessment in Derbyshire to determine whether he is safe to drive. He was calmer than expected, the consultant caught him on a good day. I hope things settle down with your grandad and that he doesn’t attempt to drive again. Best wishes to you.
