His behaviour unfortunately sounds like it warrants going into a home. This is a huge emotional burden for your grandmother to deal with on a daily basis.
Do you have any photos of the doggo?   Print one out big A4 size, write clearly on it "Rover in rehab after vet operation, coming home next week", display it clearly somewhere in the house where he'll see it all day.  Or, if he might handle it, go for the truth, make a memorial photie of Rover - "RIP Rover March 22 greatly loved & missed".

So sorry, it's really tough, and sad.   But yeh, it's very very hard on yr grandma to have to be suffering domestic violence & emotional & psychological abuse at her age, from someone who she's spending all her time & emotional & psychological capacity on caring for.   Sounds pretty hellish.  At what point will grandpa go residential, when he starts actually beating her, pushes her over & breaks her hip?   :(

Have you already or can you get some in-home respite care organised, for grandma to have desperately much-needed respite time-off?   If he's always shouting at her blaming her cursing at her threatening her -- just because he has dementia doesn't mean he has free-pass to abuse her.  Doesn't mean she has to just suck it up and take it, that's horrendous.  Poor grandpa, sure, but wow - poor poor grandma.  :(    

Contact dementia org or alzheimers org, get some expert professional experienced counselling on what your local options are, how to best help grandpa & grandma before something really horrific happens.  Best of luck!
If you care about your grandma, you should put him in a home regardless of if you want to or not.  If it's not this, it'll be something else in the future where he will again attack your grandma..  You can't control stuff like this when his disability causes it.  Your grandpa will suffer no matter what you do so your grandma is really the only one you can save and should be your first priority.

If it's for financial reasons you absolutely can't move him, then maybe medication.  Maybe one of those fake dogs.

If it's in the US, Medicaid should cover it.  Contact your aging and stabilizes office to get a social worker to help you.
Could you say the dog is at the vet or someone else’s home? Make a big sign for him that says “Beloved Pooch is at the vets office”. Put one by the doors, by his chair, wherever he is acting out. You can affirm that he has a valid concern- the dog is unsafe, cold, lonely, hungry, and make him feel heard. Try not to argue with him, there is no winning as I’m sure you’ve learned. Hopefully you can ease his hyper fixation with the dog with some redirection.
This may be a long shot.   But you could try one of those robotic pets.  They have dogs and cats.  They usually have to be pretty far along to believe the pet is real.  But it sounds like a terrible situation so it's worth a shot.  I'm sorry you're going through this.
"The dog is at dog camp. He'll be back next week." If he is at this point, and he is, it's time for white lies. There is no reason to force him to re-live the trauma of the dog dying over and over again.
We always say that the dog is “at the groomer” or “at doggy daycare” or “out for a walk with _____” constantly. “Look! They sent me a picture. Look how much fun she’s having/how cute she looks!!!” And no, she doesn’t remember and asks again a few minutes later. But the key is to manage the emotional state. The dog being in a safe place where she is happy is something that elicits positive emotions rather than negative ones. The knowledge doesn’t stick for more than a few minutes but the emotional states can carry over. So anything that can be done to encourage a calm and happy emotional state, like saying that the dog is safe and happy elsewhere, is valuable.
1. Maybe say the dog moved to live somewhere else, think what you might tell a small child whose pet dies. Well you should probably teach your kid what death is but you know what I mean. 
2. Distract and redirect him. Talk about something else he’s passionate about. 
3. This is going to sound silly but give him a plush dog toy he can keep with him. It might help to fill the hole in his heart and calm him.
I like the idea about the sign stating that the dog is in rehab, back next week, but not the reminder that the dog is dead.  No one needs a daily dose of grief like that.
We are actually thinking of adopting a small dog from a shelter, my grandma is also pretty sad because unlike the other dogs she had, she grew with this one old together. Obviously we can’t ignore the fact that the dog may live longer than them or they wouldn’t be able to care for it at some point so my sister has agreed to take the new doggo in if it gets to that point. 
I do have a pretty big canvas of the passed away dog as a puppy so thanks for the idea, I’ll definitely bring it up:)
The reason why we don’t wanna put him in a home is because he was very loving and kind man when he was younger, he’d never raise his voice or even think of hurting someone. My grandma wants him to stay for as long as she can take care of him, we’ve already thought about the possibility of putting him in a home but my grandma said that she’ll never forgive herself for doing that as they literally just celebrated their 55th wedding anniversary. My mom seems more reasonable about that but I obviously cannot really impact any of their choices as I’m only 19. The least I can do is listen to what other people like you gotta say and suggesting it to my mom and grandma.
Thanks again for the suggestions, I really appreciate it!☀️
The obvious problem is that he doesn’t remember what he’s told literally few minutes later. But the idea about making a sign is good, thank you!
They also have seals. It cracks me up it makes no sense but they’re cute.
That sounds expensive:D we are thinking about adopting a small dog from a shelter. In case they can’t take care of it, my older sister promised to take the dog in because she has a house with a big backyard. Hopefully having another dog will help him but I’m not really sure
Dog camp 🥲 that is too cute. I like that idea.
1. I'm not sure I would recommend getting a new pet for someone with dementia, especially at the stage your grandpa is. You'll never know how he would react, worst case the pet is going to suffer.
2. A nursing home is not a "punishment" for someone's bad behavior. It's assuring someone gets the help they need. I totally understand where your grandma is coming from, but both her & your grandpa (could) profit from this. Maybe have some very gentle talks with her about it, but obviously it's her decision in the end.
Best of luck to you & your family!
The behavior change is most likely due to the dementia changing the personality part of his brain. Unfortunately it is not going to get better. Gently remind your grandma that if he does do something that incapacitated her, he would most likely have to go into a facility then.
I tried the robotic cat with my mom- and she recognized the difference between that toy and an actual cat.    Robotic cat ended up in the back of her closet at memory care, sadly.   We ended up giving it to our little grandson to play with.  They aren't cheap so it was a frustrating attempt at trying to help my mom.

Dementia is so hard to deal with.   I agree with others posting here- keep saying the dog is at the vet's office, on a walk, etc.   But please know, the two reasons people are placed into care are 1. incontinence 2. violence towards loved ones.     Medication can help and if it is escalating, let the doctor know so things can be adjusted so your grandma can stay safe.   I know of one man with dementia who just went off one day and really hurt his wife of many years.  Ambulance was called and thank God the police were understanding as well.   But the man was asking at the hospital why he was there, what had happened ("nothing really") and could he go home ("sorry, no").   I also know of others at the facility where my mother is and their spouses come in almost daily to help care for them and give them lots of love and attention.  Memory care doesn't mean dumping someone and forgetting about them.
They're about $130.  So not cheap but not crazy expensive either.  

But I do think if the family can help take care of a real dog, that might be a good solution.  I hope it all works out!
Don’t get him another dog. It would be cruel to the animal and chances are you would end up needing to take it away, upsetting him even more. Everyone needs to come up with a reply to say to him about the dog being at the vet or something, explain the dog’s absence to him in some other way.
Pets can help elderly people so much, helps with stress, depression, etc. that people with dementia often experience. I think it’s a really good idea. Plus I like the fact that you have a contingency plan in place where your sister can take the dog in if needed.  If it comes to that, your sister can still bring the dog to your grandparents for regular visits.  

I’m not sure what country you’re in, but in the US there are “board and care” homes which are a great option if a loved one isn’t ready/doesn’t want to go into a nursing home.  Board and cares are smaller in size and have a more family feel to them compared to a nursing home.  Usually people get more personalized care there.  That maybe an option that your grandma would feel better about, plus she could visit your grandpa all the time.
You know it’s kinda frustrating being asked every five minutes “where’s the dog” “that bitch (grandma) kicked out the dog”
He would not remember how the dog looked like because he doesn’t even remember who I am, it’s just that there would be a dog to answer his question. And about it being cruel to the dog I really don’t see how, the whole family wants a new dog and in the worst case scenario the dog would live with my sister.
How do you know grandpa will accept the new dog? maybe he remembers how old doggo looked like?
Worst case scenario: your grandpa abuses or neglects or hurts the dog because he think it attacked him, or your grandma, or is the wrong dog so he has to take it back to its old owners, or he'll just let it out one night and it'll be gone.

I'm sorry to be harsh, but a household with someone suffering from dementia isn't a good place for a pet. Your grandpa will do unpredictable and frankly insane things because he is not in touch with reality. You've seen his he treats your grandma due to his delusion that she got rid of the dog. Not only that, but your grandma can't watch your grandpa 24/7, and folks with dementia will often get ideas into their head and act on them that endanger themselves and others. It's not safe.
Because they can’t care for it properly! And then it will have to leave anyway and you’ll be back where you started and he will be even more confused.
