I think it's a fantastic idea to move her nearer to you.  With regards to travelling, and whether that would be unsettling, are you in any position to drive?  The journey and process might be easier.
I think you should move her.  It will be a tough journey, but in the long term it will be easier for you to keep an eye on her (and make sure she’s getting proper care, not neglected), especially if she has an emergency like a fall.
It would be beneficial in that they would see you a lot more often, and get away from the more toxic family stuff you mention.

Some are good with a change, if managed correctly...and it seems like you are on a good path to that. It would help to have Dr papers, maybe stating her condition...and maybe consult with a Dr for a way to slightly sedate her prior to the flight and/or a PRN (as needed) that could be given if she freaks out or gets agitated on the flight.

If the place you are moving her to is experienced, they will know she will be a bit "out if it" when she first comes, due to adjusting to change. Seeing your familiar face will help a lot. Helping her get introduced to the new place, settled in, and into a good routine will help. But until she adjust, they may have some behaviors on their hands...and she may be a higher fall risk, as she will be confused and want to "go home".

I do NOT Know what her room set-up and/or decoration was at her old facility...but maybe have the old facility take some pics, and maybe you could set her new room up, or try to make it as familiar as possible.

The move will have it's positives/negatives...but it sounds like it might be better to come to you. And I am saying this as someone who has worked as a nurse aide for a bit over 20 years. When I first started, I barely saw residents getting visitors. I felt like family dumped them there, and hardly came back. My first resident I had pass away, she had no one come to be with her...I clocked out and stayed until she passed, and then cried my eyes out...I was 17. It is a BIG reason as to why I am always smiling, trying to make them laugh, be silly, etc...because I may be one of the few they see that day. :)

(edited typos)
Getting used to her new surroundings will not take a few days. It will probably take her at least 6 weeks. She's spending most of her time with the other people living in the facility. Family may not visit often, but she's not alone. 

I'd suggest making a pros and cons list. Moving her won't come cheap, health-wise.
Eventually, you will need to be a close to her because the facility will only do so much. A lot falls to family members that they don't really tell you about until you are in it.
Yes, great plan! The travel day will be exhausting & very confusing for her, and she will need time to settle in at her new place, yes, but visiting her often will be a huge upside. Good luck for your journey!
Is she doing well where she is?  I know she has few visitors,  but how is SHE doing?  You might be imagining what she would have wanted when she was healthier, or what you would want if you were in that position.  But those are separate issues.
I think it is worth mentioning that as dementia progresses, she will associate with your visits with the frequency rather than the length or effort involved. it becomes almost like a binary “did they visit” rather than how long. it’s very common to hear patients say “you never visit” when their family spent five hours last Sunday, the last three of which was begging them not to leave. You get more bang for your buck, so to speak,  joining them for lunch, or even just 30 minutes only, multiple times a week
We moved my mom from her home town to my brothers home town. She wasnt really getting the local visits that we hoped for and now my bro and his family are close and she gets more stimulation.  So for us it was a win, but it was definatley a difficult transition.  

I think you`ve given enough reason and thought to the process to realized she will be better off near you.
It sounds like this move is more for you than her. If she’s getting great care now why move her?!would she remember you coming by every day if you did? Mine doesn’t, so i’d pick good care over the abolity to visit everyday and still be blamed for never visiting.
One day of potential discomfort (with you) vs. the rest of her life close to you. Seems to be an easy choice.

Have you presented your mom the opportunity to move closer to you and asked her preference? One of my mom's friends recently moved from one Assisted Living Facility to be closer to her daughter in another State and she has no regrets. She's MUCH happier.
Good luck !
I find that any change in routine is difficult for my elderly cousin who is in assisted living. So the move may cause some confusion for a while. Then she should settle into the new routine. I agree that if possible, she should be closer to you. My cousin is in an amazing facility and very happy. But after spending a day with her, I realize I need to be more vigilant regarding her care. For example, if she complains of aches and pains, their nurse practitioner will just prescribe an extra medication. So I’m going to keep a close eye on that.
In my opinion, definitely move her. She will have an adjustment but try to make it a fun adventure for her. I don't know her level of dementia. My grandpa was childlike, and enjoyed candy, cartoons, and a soft blanket. Maybe have a photo album she can flip thru of good memories you can talk about.
I am early stage dementia and early onset. I do not know in what stage you're mom is and everyone is individual. I personal think the move is a good idea but not referring to it as "new" but rather as "home" I think maybe a good idea. Taking as much of her personal things from around her old home to the new home so as much as possible is familiar. Call airlines in advance and arange for specific guidance with a airport assistant and special border. Please refere to her as wheelchair user not wheelchair bound. Do not let the airline seperate her from her wheelchair. Make the airline very aware she has dementia ask if there's anything you need to do? Make sure you're taking good care of yourself!! I can't stress that enough! You can't take care of her if you're not taking good care of yourself!!!
Yes. I thought about driving....but it's 26 hours and she is wheelchair bound and needs a lift to transfer. I'm super nervous that the move will harm her, mentally, and I feel stuck in this choice. I just returned from a 4 day trip there and hated leaving her. The only family that is there takes no time to be with her and also has tried to cut off her communication with other family (sibling rivalry)....

I am so concerned that it will take a long time to settle into a new home for her.
Thanks for this...:)

I think I should visit the facility again, during a busy time and see how the energy of the place feels too. A quick visit isn't enough time to want to move my mom.

Truth is, the place she is at is good and it will be hard to replace. But only seeing family once a month at best? That isn't how I want mom to spend the remainder of her time.

I have a PRN on board, but the travel and transition scare me. For her sake and her mental stability. I will do anything to avoid additional trauma to her. 

I guess it will be another sleepless night :) Blessings!
This is so true....when I was there for 4 days, helping all day-every day, I asked myself "What goes on when I'm not here"?

I think she is put in her room alone... a lot. Which I understand, they only have so much time per resident. 

I have been in the caregiving business for many years, the residents with the most family involvement typically get better care. In my observations.
Mom is doing pretty good where she is, but having to travel so far just to see her is exhausting for me. I have to fly in to the city, drive 2 hours north and have no support while I am in this little town in the middle of nowhere. I talk to my mom a lot on Facetime, she uses that to communicate with me almost daily. Last year, I was literally a virtual caregiver, so I started thinking, maybe I should just just bring her closer to me and have the one on one time. 

Plus.....in the town where she is, I have a toxic family member who is making life difficult for me. (disconnected her communication device).

My mom was put into a nursing home without my consent. I just gained control of the situation (new POA) and now have more choices. 

I am not taking this decision lightly, and I greatly appreciate all of the replies on here. It's great to hear different perspectives and it gives me more to consider.

Thank you everyone!!!
I thought that too at first. I do have so much extra time and feel that having her close would increase the quality of her life, maybe mine too :) 

I want to do what is best, they're all tough choices!!
I have mentioned it briefly, as I didn't want to confuse her on Facetime. She said that she is open for any new ideas and that she knows I am trying to help her.

Some days I am on Facetime for several hours with her, so I know she finds great comfort with me being close, even if it's on a computer screen.

Mom has also declined dramatically since entering the nursing home. Her confusion is worse and she can no longer do a stand and pivot transfer.

A nursing home would be a "last resort" for my choice for mom. But, now that she has been institutionalized for a year, I don't see any option of caring for her at home.

The next best thing was to move her closer so I can work with her to get stronger and get her back on tract. I only work part time and have the extra time to devote to her care.
If the new place will allow, and there is a place to sleep, spend the first night with her. If not feasible, take a few days off and stay with her as much as possible the first several days.  Eat meals with her.  Best of luck.
It just depends on the person, the travel, and the transition. Some handle it really well, especially if it is very well planned out. And some do not handle it so well, even with the best of planning.

But that is also true of people who do not have dementia. Some of us do better with changes than others.

If she is able to see loved ones more often by moving her, that may be better for her. Especially if you can find a great facility. 

But also keep in mind that while they are in a facility, but not able to see family often, does not necessarily mean they are as socially isolated as you think. They see the other residents and have activities, see the various staff (aides, nurses, activities people, dietary, house keepers, etc). I know that is FAR from being family...but they are not completely socially isolated. I have seen some cases where people came into a facility after being home by themselves and hardly ever going out...and turning into social butterflies and getting to know the other residents and loving all the activities.

Take a little time to weight the benefits and negatives. Talk to the staff who care for her at the old place and her current Drs. If anyone could give you a good idea of how she would handle it, or if being closer to family would be better for her...they would know, as they care for her daily, know what may or may not confuse or help.

It's a tough choice. And I do love that you are considering your Mom and what is best for her in this...not just rushing to do it because it's what you want. It shows that you care for her, and will make the decision you feel is best for her...even if it means leaving her in her current home and working with that.

I would also recommend taking a tour of the place you want to potentially put her in, see what they are like, talk to aides/nurses and other residents to see how they like the place, see what activities they have, what all they offer, and what staff they have that could help you make your Mom's transition more comfortable for her should this be the option you go with.
Yep, they will let things slide when not watched. They are there just to keep them alive and avoid a lawsuit, but as far as providing any quality of life - they can be sorely lacking. Now some of that is because they have a lot of residents and only so many staff.
Yep, absolutely move her to your town, since you have the opportunity.  Sure, I suppose the travel and the move will be a big thing (hopefully an adventure) - if she's anything like my mum, much of the drive and the flight she'll be napping anyway, lol.   And, I've found some benefits from the whole horrid memory-loss thing - some changes can actually smooth over relatively promptly - they just forget, eh.   While she's still relatively mobile, take advantage -- later on, it might really be too difficult too late, & she'll be stuck there.  It's too far away, if she starts having intermittent bad turns, for you to every time drive hours and more hours flying across the country.  Better she's around the corner, even if it's a bit of kerfuffle initially, to get her here.  Carpe diem!
Yeah I understand. My opinion and sentiment changes almost daily on the matter. This is more than I thought it would be.
You will both benefit from being close to each other.
As other commenters have indicated , the more the facility staff see family members, the more likely they are to stay on their toes because they know the resident has folks regularly checking in on them.
Thanks.

Yes, I plan to be with her daily for a long time. I am glad to stay the night if they allow it!
