No, she won't get through the neuro psych exam and it can take over 4 hours.  Does she really need an MRI? Just because a doc wants to do more testing doesn't mean she has to have it done.  A good neuro doc will be able to diagnose her based on what is happening with her.  The benefit of having a diagnosis is medication, some meds work better with different types of dementia.  My husband has been told he has Alzheimers, then Lewy Body Dementia and now Parkinsons Dementia.  He has had 2 neuro psych exams and MRI's. Bottom line is he has dementia. Don't try and force your Mother to do anything she doesn't want to.  I imagine it is quite frightening to know you have dementia and will lose your ability to function over time.  Leave her be right now.  If you have not been to an Elder Attorney do so now so you can have the proper legal documents in place for the future. You have not described what is  happening with her other than some memory stuff nor her current living conditions so hard to give advice.  Just make sure she is capable of taking care of herself:  cooking, driving, bathroom habits etc.  If she is driving, should she be?
[deleted]
I know how it feels to want an “answer” but it sounds like your mom has dementia. I wouldn’t worry about getting more tests done (I focused so much on tests and at the end it cost a lot of money and they still found no treatment for her). I would focus on care now. Are there any meds her doctor can prescribe now? What sort of care plan can be put in place? If she is still driving, talk to her doctor about contacting the state and getting her license revoked. I know it was nice when the state took my moms license so then it wasn’t myself or my dad doing it to her.
I think the medical tests (like MRI) are the most important piece.  The rule-in or rule-out other explanations for the dementia that there might be worthwhile actions for.  For my Mom, these were fine.

The neurologist didn't seem to add much value other than being able to order the medical tests.   (My Mom argued with him about answers for "Driving Test" which is a multiple choice test which gives a percentage score on how likely you are to fail a driving test.)

The neuropsychologist didn't really add much value either except for one thing she explained.  Say you have a memory of an event.  Say you lose 50% of that memory of what happened.  Your mind fills in the other 50% as best it can.  And that's how you end up with someone having a much different recollection of an event. 

From year to year visits with neuropsychologist (yes, these are long), we are being told she is getting worse.  We already know this through interactions with her.

My Mom frequently has trouble remembering things for even a few minutes.  This was diagnosed as Mild Cognitive Impairment, not dementia, and they said she wasn't bad enough for any of the dementia medications.  

I don't have an answer.  I think the answer is it just sucks.  And my Mom will go along with whatever we say - to this doctor, to that test, it's just nice to be out and doing something...
Same complaints here, exact same complaints about the tests. Gets very angry because “I have never been good at math and they never taught me how to do math correctly” blah, blah… I found the neuropsych testing quite informative myself as it is important to exclude the possibility of cofounders such as depression as they can have significant overlap. 

I would consider making and attempting to go to these appointments and if she refuses then at least her medical providers will be able to document the refusal and treat her based on the data that they are able to obtain in their limited interactions. This will least get her a diagnosis and may help justify trying certain medications and competency decisions etc down the road.
Do whatever you have to do to get her to the neuropsychologist appointment. Yes, it can be a long appointment. Or it can be a much shorter appointment. I don’t know why, but my husband’s appointment was more like an hour. Maybe that means he didn’t get the full appointment he needed? Maybe it means they could tell pretty quickly what they were dealing with? Maybe lots of things. However, I would not mention the length of the appointment to your mom. Just get her there and let them figure out how to keep her there. If she blows up and storms out, seeing her overreacting may actually help them diagnose her.
We’re in a similar situation with my grandad. He’s not had any of the proper tests because ultimately he’s 93, doesn’t understand why he needs them and wouldn’t cooperate. In his case having the full diagnosis wouldn’t change anything, he’s too far gone after multiple falls for medication to have an effect so we haven’t seen the need to put him through it just to learn something we already knew. Ultimately I guess it’s down to whether you think these tests will have a benefit going forward or not, and unfortunately no one can decide that without knowing your mom.
My mum is the same every time she has to do the mmse (mini memory state exam). She says "why do I need to to know the date/day/month/year, I don't work anymore so I don't have to know!" Or "I was never good at math" or "I'm nervous and that makes me forget"

They are very good at gaslighting, not on purpose, but enough to make you think "well that does make sense, lots of questions being asked by a new person would make me nervous too I suppose". At the start I was really keen on proof mum has dementia and with that proof I could be sure I wasn't imagining things. You arent imagining things. 

As you keep travelling along this shit journey you'll find good and bad. Best of luck.
Why does she need all those tests? Sorry, but a doctor who knows how to deal with dementia patients would find a way to test her in gentle ways that won't upset her. Also, MRI - why?
I'm a little frightened to say, that I'd feel the same way as your mom. I hate tests and I hate trick questions worse.  That said, if all these tests aren't really going to make much of a difference in the end, then maybe it's better to just leave it alone, for your mom's sake.
Yeah, during the MoCA the doctor noticed she was having anxiety when answering the questions at the end and she prescribed her Zoloft, I think it seems like it's been helping so far because my mom also has raging anxiety but to know more she referred her to neuropsych and to get an MRI... I think she would have a terrible time doing the neuropsych eval, still wrapping up her legal docs but the POA's are done for sure which I am beyond relieved about... The driving thing is a good question, I am not personally able to take her keys away but I'm working with her primary care for when that time comes. She would definitely pass a driving test atm so it's tough, she's able to do a lot and can be alone for sure, it's just that sometimes she gets hopelessly confused at home, has semantic trouble, and cant remember most conversations... lately her memory has been surprising me in a good way and it's refreshing to say the least
Yeah, I know it's gonna be so hard too but it's more than worth it to protect her
Oh interesting, I didn't know the state could do that, thank you
Thats great that your mom is agreeable! And you're right, it just sucks :( That 50% - 50% explanation makes a lot of sense with things that my mom has said in the past, thank you for that, it is comforting to hear
Interesting, my mom has had such similar comments of "I've never had a good memory! this is just my learning difference!" when it's definitely not just typical forgetfulness. The appointment would be done virtually so I don't know how well that would pan out - they offered to either do it at home or in the office but the doctor would be on a monitor even if we went in to the office
Yeah, it's just tough because she had such a bad experience at the neurologist that I can hardly imagine she will be agreeable to sit through another thing since she already said she didn't want to do anything like that again. She might then no longer trust me and that will be very damaging to the future of her care and me caring for her
Yeah, I don't know, she is 67 so quite young :(
MRI will also show decrease in white matter and hippocampal volume, which are signatures of dementia
An MRI can rule out other causes of symptoms, such as tumors. Some of those other potential causes can be treated if caught early enough. IMO, not doing an MRI would be irresponsible.
This neurologist was not very great with us. She wasn't encouraging my mom to keep trying or reassuring her that the test doesn't show intelligence (since my mom was clearly very insecure about it)... my mom also had a lot of anxiety doing the test so she put her on Zoloft and referred her to neuropsych and an MRI
Good days and not so good days, that is dementia.  Some days m husband is doing great and we can talk and he is able to respond coherently.  Other days, poof, he is just gone.  Can't form a sentence, can't get his sweater on, just not able to manage.  He also probably could have passed a drivers test.....then he was leaving our driveway and was in the wrong gear and crashed into our trailer.  Thankfully he was not out on the road.  The point being he had been hanging on by a thread and the thread broke, no notice, just broke.  Also, placed my slow cooker on the stove and turned a burner on and melted it.  Took the electric kettle and put it on a burner and melted that. So, be cognizant that she can appear to be doing well and maybe you are not so worried, then the thread breaks. My hubby's MRI showed age related changes so I don't really see the benefit of making her get one.  Good luck.  It's a long journey.
What did she end up scoring on the MoCA?  Anything under 15 is probably not worth putting through neuropsych testing unless there's some strange peculiarity or severe anxiety invalidated the results.

She should still try to complete the brain MRI is that is still valuable.

Driving tests for the elderly are a lot more robust then they are for 16 year olds.  Some of them require you to pass a moca before the test will even begin.
In the state of Calif., doctors are mandated to report certain conditions to the DMV (Alzheimer’s, epilepsy are examples).  This is what happened to my dad.  He then was contacted by the DMV and required to come in for testing.  The end result isn’t necessarily revocation of the driver’s license; it can result in a restricted license (e.g., no night driving; no freeway driving).  In my dad’s case, he did lost his license but that was the correct decision.  And it took the “bad deed” out of my hand’s.
Yes. I’m not sure about individual state rules, but it would be worth talking to her doctor about it.
We weren't able to get a real score because of her anxiety during the test :/
