I regularly clean out my mom's fridge without telling her. To her, everything is "still good" even if it's a yogurt that expired months ago or whatever. If your mom is making the same meals over and over and not remembering, I think chances are good that she won't realize if you threw stuff out. Maybe start with the most dangerous stuff first, and see if she realizes? 

Trying to rationalize with a person who has dementia about whatever wrong thing they believe won't end well for either party unfortunately. It sucks when we're just trying to help and keep the person healthy and it upsets them, just making the whole job harder. You should probably let go of this idea that she can participate in safety decisions. I know how unnatural it feels to start having to parent your parent. :-(

I hope the CNA is around while she's cooking? If she's forgetting whole meals I'd be worried about her leaving burners on, leaving food out too long etc. :-\ Good luck.
Yep,  my mom would drink spoiled milk and brown bananas with fruit flies buzzing about.   "It's still good!" she would protest.   Dementia distorts perceptions of what is safe to eat.    Expiration labels might not be understood anymore.   If dementia has destroyed the sense of smell.  then the sniff test to see if something has gone off is impossible to do.

I like the word "nevertheless".   Your mom is screaming at you that the food is no good?  "I understand you are mad but nevertheless we are throwing out this unsafe food."  It's weird to parent a parent but you sometimes just have to power through on non-negotiable issues.   I would try and toss stuff out when my mom wasn't looking.

Oddly, as she advanced in dementia, she decided any foods that were opened were bad or unsafe.  Even a fresh bag of cookies I bring by to memory care is rejected after she's had a few of them and then sees the package 10 minutes later.  "Those cookies are  old, I have no idea where they came from."
I don't know how to solve the problem, but offer the thought that it's a very important one. My father at 96 had a variety of physical issues centering on the GI tract, intake and elimination. He lived 1000+ miles away. After mom died, I took on a commuter lifestyle to keep an eye on him in (semi)independent living facility (lots of aids and helpers, but not 24/7 hawk-eyed supervision).

As a civil engineer, he had always been fussy to a fault over safety issues. But the kitchen (even microwave, toaster) were a foreign country to him. Brainfog made him even more a stranger in a strange land.

I'm convinced he left meat lying around for a week+ in the fridge, ate it, got ugly digestive results, skipped a scheduled medical treatment because he felt lousy that day, and that was the start of a cascade of health problems that led to his passing. 

His passing wasn't a direct result of bad food, but he had little physical resilience by that point, and many other health issues waiting to pounce. Each issue would set off another issue, or treatment for one issue would set off another issue. Basically like lighting one tiny cherry bomb while standing in a fireworks shed.
I'm 33, parenting my dad (76). It does suck, and as someone with no children, it is really hard. I have had to learn that no means no. I throw everything without him looking. If it's when he is awake, I distract him and then throw things away. At one point, he thawed chicken in the fridge and left it there. He literally could not smell that it went bad. You may have to reduce the amount of food stocked in the fridge to avoid the waste, and throw away things in the fridge without her knowledge. Depending on how far dementia has progressed, she may not even remember that the fridge used to have more food. 

Lastly, it may be time to turn off the stove. My dad survived on sandwiches until I could afford to have him placed in memory care. He left the stove on one too many times that it was no longer safe.
Throw it out and replace everything fresh. Clean as she is unaware, or distracted. 
Don't ever be forceful, she feels resistance more then ever. Your resistance will make her irritable. She doesn't want to be losing so much control. Make her feel involved but with simple minded things. And laugh together as often as possible.
Same same same! I started by throwing out my moms rotten food without telling her, but I’m finding it’s better to approach the issue from the other side.
Since I’m the one doing the food shopping, I buy as little as possible. This minimizes her choices so she’s less likely to get confused or overwhelmed when trying to prepare food. If the only thing in there are the 5 ingredients for her favorite chicken dish, that’s all she’s going to cook. When there’s something all prepared/leftovers, I move that to the front in clear containers so she literally has to touch it and hopefully see it before reaching for any ingredients to cook a whole new meal.
It took me a while to get this down, partly because my mom has that food obsession. She’d call me at work multiple times per day asking when I was going shopping and give me a long list and say she was desperate for food. And then I’d buy all this food only to find out that there was plenty in the house already. So now I assure her I’ll get everything she needs, and I do, but I ignore the desperate please to get her more than she needs.
Good luck OP.
I would clean out the fridge regularly and replace stuff you throw out. Don’t make a big deal out of it. As far as her cooking things she just made…I wouldn’t worry about that too much either. Can you take the excess food and eat it yourself before it goes bad? Something’s are just not worth fighting over. It’s not going to make her remember the things you want her too. You have to adjust your expectations and figure out how to cut down on food waste and spoilage a different way.
She probably can’t smell or taste it very well so along with forgetting how long ago it’s been it doesn’t seem gross to her. I’d just do it without telling her. If she would notice it missing you can replace things like milk.
One thing you will learn is that logic has no place here (dementia word). It’s hard to let go of that, I know. Trying to be logical or debate with a loved one with dementia gets you nowhere and makes them agitated. You have to come to grips with kind lying. It took me a while to see that. 

Just clean out the fridge regularly..preferably when she’s not around to see you doing it to avoid arguments. Knowing she’s not keeping track means you’ll have to keep a closer eye on things. But just do it. Trying to get into a discussion using logic is a waste of time. Their brains don’t work that way anymore. 

With making the same thing over and over…let it go. You have to pick you battles. A little food waste is probably not worth getting her all agitated and upset.
this, exactly this. same tactics in my household now.

also adding that she may not smell or taste that it’s gone bad. loss of a sense of smell can be a symptom of alzheimers (in addition to covid, as we now know).

if she makes something twice, no harm. she’ll have twice the leftovers, great.

parenting the parent is so so so hard to get used to and sometimes still hard to do. i wish you the best of luck.
I'm a chemical and petroleum engineer so I get that lol...but I'm also 32 so I have different ideas of safety in the home simply because I lived alone for so long before taking this on. I have to adapt to the new situation the same way I did when I was taking care of my dad. 

It's a great metaphor, as it applies to both mental and physical cherry bombs. I'm walking on eggshells when I'm at the house cause if I say something even remotely in the wrong tone it'll set her off; thankfully she's not violent. She either yells, cries, or shuts down... but no hitting. 

She fell once so far (she already had one hip replaced few years back) but thankfully the ortho said there was no damage. The worst part for me is that she's physically fit...we go for walks and she doesn't need a cane or anything, and she can go toe to toe with our dog during play time. It's just the mental decline. And like you said, GI issues can be a catalyst so I get upset when she fights me on that specific subject. I tell her "you only have 3 things to worry about: your health, your hygiene, and your happiness. I will take care of everything else"

I understand that she's frustrated with herself because she can't remember things and she tells me every day that she can live alone, but my dad died 5mo ago and she's grieving him. They were an independent team for 40+ years and she lost her rock, and I think that's part of the quicker decline.
Man I'm 32 (my dad was 74 and my mom is 71) and I feel you. No kids or wife (was on track 2 years ago but my dad's stuff happened and life got derailed...thankfully my girlfriend stuck with me through it) and now it feels like I've already had kids. I don't even know if I want any now.

Thankfully the stove is electric so she can't burn the place down as easily but she has burned a couple pots making tea and forgetting. Luckily she's vegetarian so she knows where her food is and I've allocated a drawer in the fridge to my stuff (deli meat, steak, chicken, etc)...its monthly dairy and some of her meals she fights me on. She thinks she just pulled it out of the freezer but I know for a fact she didn't. I've had her smell curdled milk before and she tells me it's fine and tries to put it in her cereal.

It's just hard trying to focus on myself and her 24/7, so I keep my head on a swivel as much as I can. I actually got a dog that is coincidentally ridiculously smart so if I'm in my room applying for jobs or whatever, she will start scratching on the door if something is off. She's done it three times since I got her a couple months ago, and she keeps my mom busy. 

Regardless, it's weirdly comforting knowing others are in the same boat, so thank you for your insight. Also, fuck this disease. It's unfair but we have to keep trucking.
My civil engineer built oil refineries! So I guess that makes us long lost cousins.

Yeah, dad lost his rock about 2 years before he followed her. And the thing of it is, being of the Greatest Generation and a guy, he could never admit she was the rock, because that would have been unmanly, and against the Great Deoression code of stoicism.

You may need to ask your mom's housekeeper to assess the fridge every visit. If she saw it in there last visit, it's time to pitch it on this visit. If mom has short term memory issues, she may (knock on wood) not notice.
I definitely do not want any kids after this experience. It really sucks and #fuckdementia
Side note, I just read one of your posts about memory care. That's literally my nightmare...And $6500-$7000/mo is what I'd be looking at. I made $8500/mo at my previous job and it still gave me anxiety because I have to worry about student loans and my other expenses. Luckily I'm the first executor on her trust so I can live with her but my work will eventually take me out of town, so companion care it is!

I'd rather self sacrifice than have my mom go through that...I'm sorry that happened to you.
Life sucks. I hope you have a less difficult road and stay strong.
