What kind of wrong conclusions has he come up with? Are you sure their wrong?
With any behavior change, rule out medical causes. Infection can impact cognition, so can medications and polypharmacy.  Any dementia med is for preventing decline. I saw little benefit with my mom and she did have adverse stomach and bowel effects. I would encourage you to start thinking and planning ahead, which we all should do: financially, medically, for care needs, accessibility in the home, etc.  However, cognitive decline can make the planning more urgent.
Forgetting passwords was one of the first big red flags for my mum, though I didn't know it at the time. She'd argue endlessly with her cell phone provider or internet company that their service was broken when she really just had forgotten how to use her devices. 

This is absolutely not to say that your dad has dementia. There are loads of things that can impact memory, and many of them are reversible.

Your dad should probably see a doctor. If he's reluctant to speak to someone about his memory (understandable) then you may need to fib, gently, to get him seen. 

Consider reaching out to his GP privately, in advance, to share your concerns. If his doctor is worth his salt, he'll administer a memory test as a matter of "due process" next time your dad is in. Then, find a reason to have him seen. Is he due for an annual physical? Book it. Does he need a covid booster? Make it happen. You could even have a heart to heart about your concerns regarding his low blood sugar ("dad, I'm afraid I'll come to visit one day and you'll have passed out and cracked your head on the counter").

At the outside, you'll have to wait until something more dire happens and he ends up in hospital. Not ideal, clearly, but this is how my mum was eventually diagnosed.

Until then, I'd encourage you to read up on caring for folks with memory problems. I often found it not intuitive and would have felt better to have had some knowledge under my belt earlier on.

Good luck.
