Check the thermostats. It may also be worth it to turn off water or at least get the hot water heater checked. With an empty house, a lot of damage can be done with a water leak since no one will be home to notice.
You've got a good list going and are well on track.  The only thing I would add to the list is to let the local police know and make sure that they and the neighbors have your contact details in case anything comes up.
Ohh, poor FIL, it's a sad step, but good to place him where he'll be taken care of.  Hope yr spouse is managing ok, with the inevitable moving along.   :(     Hmm, maybe place around some cockroach-bait traps, in case bugs decide to move into a cozy place away from adverse weather outside?   Or mice?  With no food-stuffs around one would think there'd be nothing there for them, but ..
My wife is a Professional Organizer who helps people get their stuff in order, whether that is the garage, the second bedroom that's still full of boxes from the last move, or taking care of everything in a house after someone has moved or passed away.

I'd suggest you find someone like that in your area, and have them help out. Not only are they local to the house and can go by and take a look or visit now and then, they can also help with re-homing all the things that need to go. Whether that is donating things, getting them sold via second hand stores or eBay or whatever, or even taking half-empty bottles of shampoo and toothpaste to homeless shelters. Since the Professional Organizer doesn't have a personal connection to anything in the house, they can be your voice of reason and know if/where something will sell, or if it just needs to be donated or trashed.

Having someone like that visit the house once a week will be MUCH cheaper than driving three hours each way, and they can take care of all the little fiddly stuff, once you have taken away the family treasures.
You can get water leak alarms that send alerts to your phone. Feit electric is the brand we used while we were trying to figure out the reason/monitor water backing up into our basement.
Good idea, thank you!
Great idea! Thank you.
He’s managing ok, it’s a LOT of coordination in addition to kind of accepting his dad is not all there. Traps are a good idea. Thank you!
I hadn’t thought about that and that’s a great idea! Once we’re ready to clear out the house to rent I love this idea. It’s so helpful to know what services to look for. Thank you!!
If you need help finding a reputable organizer, my wife says to check the National Association of Professional Organizers. They apparently have good resources on their web site.
