If you have a Durable POA then you have the right to refuse any medical treatment for your Mother.
Exact same situation. It’s infuriating that they keep making sure her heart will live to 100 when ever her mind left her years ago.
PaceMaker was a problem in my grandmother's dementia progression, so early-on i made the decision that i would avoid one, if doctor suggested it.  i do not want that complication.  Each family needs to make that decision, but my personal thoughts are that the opinion carrying the most weight should be what is known of the wishes of the person living with dementia.  What were some of their other "life" decisions, and can that indicate what their wishes would be in this case ??
My grandad has a pacemaker and dementia, but he has had a pacemaker for at least 15 years, well before the dementia started. It was replaced about two years ago when the symptoms were still fairly mild.

Ultimately I guess it depends on how your mum is at the time it comes to change it. I suspect it will also depend on whether the medical professionals are happy that the process is still safe for her. I honestly don’t know if they could agree to not change it due to dementia, it might depend what country you’re in. 

You also need to look into power of attorney for health matters if you don’t already have it (assuming your mum has moments where she still has capacity).
My dad had a pacemaker and his doctor suggested that the toll taken by any surgery to replace wouldn't be worth it.
My mom had congestive heart failure and a stroke at the same time. They put in a pacemaker while she was recovering from her stroke. At the time, it made sense to attempt to give her the best chance at recovery. Rather than recover, she developed dementia and other neurological issues which led her to be paralyzed and confused in bed for 6 months. If I had perfect foresight at the time, I would have never had the pacemaker implanted. You have to ask if you want your mom to wither away with dementia, and what she would have wanted for herself.
My husband has a defibrillator with a pacemaker. It can be turned off. Check with either the manufacturer or the device check people to find out if it can be turned off. My guess is it can be. Then you can make the decision based on what would be best for your loved one (with a durable power of attorney).
My plan was to not replace my mother's pacemaker battery as she had started into dementia.  And then I learned from the heart doctor that the battery starts to beep as it wears out.

Advanced dementia with a beeping chest did not sound like a comforting combination.   We replaced the battery.   I was thinking about it this morning- could she have just have had outpatient surgery to remove the battery and not replace it?   But at the time, she was still living on her own (with a lot of help from me) and it seemed like such a cold move- who knew how many good years she might still have?

Not many.  Life with advanced dementia isn't good at all.  I wish the battery hadn't been replaced and I'm sure my mom from the past, a nurse with a sound mind, would have said, absolutely don't replace it.
My mom just had a pacemaker put in two months ago.  Her mom had the same problems (dementia and a pacemaker), her last years were pretty bad and I always wondered if she would have died earlier if the pacemaker hadn't been put in.  Now I wonder the same about Mom.  Physically she seems a little better with the pacemaker, but it doesn't seem to have helped the dementia or caused it to be worse.
thank you
thank you, modern science is not always the best thing I have realised with time.
Thanks for your advice, its helpful
Thats a very good suggestion, thanks for responding
thank you
Exactly my POV, her memory problems became worse only after putting in the pacemaker. I have often wondered if there is any connection at all, does a pacemaker accelerate memory issues?
thanks for your suggestion
Thanks for sharing, it's a really tough situation you were in. Yes the PM could have just been operated out.  My mom has been living in goodbye mode from the time she got cancer. But there was too much insistence by the hospital to get her a PM. I'm not sure her frail health will support another operation when the time comes for it to be replaced in another decade. The hospitals want to make money by selling more PMs and they have a tunnel view of such a situation. But what happens to the patients whose PM's are not replaced due to various issues, do they become bedridden?
thanks for replying
Hospital stays can definitely take a toll on older folks' cognitive function, which may or may not be reversed once they are discharged. Every time my mom had a procedure, she lost ground physically and cognitively. If I had to guess, I would suspect it's more likely that declining heart or vascular function coincides with declining mental function.
You are very welcome. Glad I could help. Good luck with everything!
