My dad was on memantine for a couple of years and then it just stopped working. When I asked his doctor to increase it, the doc said it would only make me feel better, not my dad. Now, my dad is on meds that are dealing with his emotions caused by dementia and not for the actual dementia.
They worked great for MIL for the first year or two, they did nothing at all for my dad.  Truly, it varies greatly from person to person and the stage of the disease where they are used.
Back in 2020 my uncle was diagnosed with vascular dementia and was started on 5mg donepezil which worked for a few months. By summer of 2021 he was upped to 10mgs donepezil which he had a bad reaction to behavior wise so his neurologist decreased it back to 5mg but started him on lamotrigine and seroquel which has help keep him calm enough for now. His dementia is still worsening but that is to be expected,he's still on the donepezil but I don't see where its helping him. My main concern is just keeping him happy and healthy to the end.
Mother has been taking donepezil &  memantine for about 10 weeks now.  In her case theres been a definite uptick in her ability to think through things.  Before, she was terrified of the shower and would go 3-4 weeks without.  Now she jumps in the shower every 4-5 days on her own, and does a better job while in there.. She's also not getting herself worked up out of frustration as much as before. 

 really, im terrified of the day when they're not working anymore.  Its a living nightmare
Dad has been diagnosed and taking Donepezil for over 3 years. He is almost 86. I think he's done remarkably well, but I can't say for certain that Donepezil is a huge factor - there's just no way to know. He was pretty noncompliant with other medications before going to assisted living and I think consistently taking BP meds has helped him too.
Nothing slows the progression, meds may mask their true progression.  Donezipil was poison for my husband, took him off after about 4 days. If she is not having a terribly difficult time why medicate her.  Docs are always quick to prescribe even when there are not any serious reason to do so.  I will not allow any further meds to be added unless he is really struggling.
Memantine helped my mom with her hallucinations (PD) but not with cognition, sadly.
So very wonderful (and rare) that the family is all pitching in.

Yes; i am personal friends with more than 200 persons living with dementia (because i led "Dementia Mentors" for over 5 years).  Some with Alz-type have delayed onset of more severe symptoms with the combo therapy.  Some with Lewy Body type do well with combo.  My friends with FTD-type usually have problems with intensified symptoms from these.  If her symptoms are already mid-to-late stage, then i suspect these medications might not be worth the problems of trying to integrate them.

Personally very VERY glad i persisted with attempts on Donepezil.  Here are my experiences with it, and what i did in order to get past the horrid horrid side effects.  >> [https://truthfulkindness.com/about/life-other/med/medications-4sx/](https://truthfulkindness.com/about/life-other/med/medications-4sx/) .
My husband’s doctor started him on a very low dose of donepezil because he has had better results easing patients up to the full dosage. They had fewer side effects. 

Does the donepezil help my husband? Heck if I know. I have no way of knowing what he would be like today without it. I just keep refilling it on faith alone. That’s all I can do, so that’s what I do.
The Exelon patch has helped my husband. It’s Rivastigmine. I thought it wasn’t helping but he had to go 2 weeks without it to switch to the brand because the generic causes bad skin reactions. I noticed the effect immediately. 

Donepezil made him belligerent.  He has Lewy Body with Parkinsonism and the carbidopa/levodopa made him more out of it.
My experience was the same. It helped for a while, and I knew it helped because if he missed a dose he was way more out of it. But after a certain point he just lost all capacity for coherent thought, and at that point it was all about keeping him calm/managing his emotions as much as possible.
How’s he doing with the lamotrigine?  That can have some nasty allergic reactions
How did she handle the first few days of side effects if she had any?
I’m so sorry to hear that. When you say poison what do you mean by that? Was is bad side effects?
Thank you for sharing! You have a wonderful blog that I’ll be sure to dig through!
Faith is all we have! Thank you for sharing
It has helped him thankfully! His neurologist told me to keep an out for a rash and he was slowly increased on the dose. So far I've noticed a good change in his behaviour and moods.
i dont think she had any, she was already having fits leading up to starting.  hard to tell.  She seems alot better off past 2 months though. no fits anymore
Yes, it was poison for him because of the side effects.  Three days of continuous vomiting and diarrhea the second time it was prescribed.  The first time it was prescribed he had violent dreams that he acted out by hitting, grabbing and punching me.  Not everyone can take these meds.  You have to look at the possible side effects and watch for them when giving someone a medication they haven't taken before.  Doctors are quick to prescribe medication and I don't think it is always necessary.  There was no reason to put my husband on donezipil.
