I had the same experience with my wife (age 64) and her neurologist 1 year ago. Bedside manner is so important! She had a moment of clarity and very forcibly told him she did NOT appreciate being talked down to. She complied with the MRI, they found nothing. Next were blood tests that revealed poor absorption of food nutrients (duh, she’s a gastric bypass patient) and 17 big supplements pills daily, with and between meals. The supplements filled up her small stomach and she… wouldn’t eat real food. Next he wanted an extensive stool sample, which she refuses or can’t due to short-term meds to treat her monthly urinary tract infections. 

Her cognition has gotten much worse in 1 year. The one thing we know for certain about dementia is THAT IT ALWAYS GETS WORSE. 

First and foremost, take care of yourself. Find a dementia support group. Don’t try all the caretaking yourself. Grieving is a huge part of this process.
Is there a doctor or PCP she has that she likes that could make the recommendation? A doc she likes planting that bug in her ear sometimes goes over a lot better. As another commenter said, bedside manner is essential. 

Sometimes you, the caregiver, can suggest the perfect course of action, but it won’t be heeded - at no fault of your own. Someone else could say the same thing with the same words and your mother may listen to them instead.
I think your plan is good. You can of course find a nicer neurologist and then send that MRI to them. And absolutely rule out anything else it could possibly be. Tumor, depression, hydrocephalus, anything else that’s treatable, before resigning to a terminal diagnosis. 

all the rules that we learned as kids about being honest and presenting a case logically just go out the window. You have to learn to be kind of manipulative and it sucks. I know people on here don’t even tell their parents they’re going to the doctor because it only creates mental torture. They take them out shopping or for lunch out and then *oh wait before we go home I’ve got one little errand so let’s nip in here real quick*
Several causes for dementia SYMPTOMS are "fixable", so you might be able to go at it from that angle.  The info below is not yet public, because i need to make picture to go with it.

This DRAFT page is written by Truthful Loving Kindness (yes, that is my full legal name) for publishing at http://www.truthfulkindness.com , so PLEASE address any questions or comments to that website, regardless of which website shows these words.   
.  
in my opinion the three major reasons to go for early diagnosis (or diagnosis at any stage) are  
There are several sources of dementia SYMPTOMS which can be resolved or arrested without further progress (if caught early enough).  
Imperative to find out if Lewy Body dementia is in the mix (because majority of dementia brains, at point of autopsy, had more than one type of progressive dementia).  
Diagnosis suggests research for insight on dementia symptoms and strategies, which allow the person to live a better quality of life (and with DIAGNOSIS, the care-partners can often access alternate care for their own doctor appointments, trips to grocery, meditation time, and other forms of self-care).  
.  
Mayo Clinic lists these as some common dementia symptoms.  
Cognitive changes  
Memory loss, which is usually noticed by someone else  
Difficulty communicating or finding words  
Difficulty with visual and spatial abilities, such as getting lost while driving  
Difficulty reasoning or problem-solving  
Difficulty handling complex tasks  
Difficulty with planning and organizing  
Difficulty with coordination and motor functions  
Confusion and disorientation  
Psychological changes  
Personality changes  
Depression  
Anxiety  
Inappropriate behavior  
Paranoia  
Agitation  
Hallucinations  
(above at >> https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/dementia/symptoms-causes/syc-20352013 ).  
.  
Some Reversible Causes of Dementia SYMPTOMS include  (there may be some roll-over on these, because with my own dementia symptoms i cannot remember all the factors for each term).  
Infections and immune-disorders  
Alcohol or substance-use disorder  
Metabolic problems and endocrine abnormalities  
Tumors  
Nutritional deficiencies  
Subdural hematomas, (blood clots beneath the outer covering of the brain)  
Side-effects from medications, or combination of medications  
Normal-pressure hydrocephalus, a buildup of fluid in the brain  
Low levels of thyroid hormones, called hypothyroidism  
Low blood sugar, called hypoglycemia  
HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND)
If the doctor is part of a larger medical facility, they often have a patient experience  department to whom you can take a complaint. I highly suggest calling their business office and asking who you can speak to about your experience because this neurologist should not be seeing people with dementia if he/she treating patients poorly. If you don’t make a complaint there is no way for the clinic to investigate or try to improve patient experiences. In our local medical facility I used to work on the same floor as the patient experience office and they take their jobs very seriously and what they do is very respected at our medical facility.

I would also follow the advice of another commenter on this thread, get the MRI and get a second opinion about the MRI elsewhere. I would also tell your mother that the MRI is for a different doctor to look at because she will never ever have to see that bad doctor again. That is if she even remembers the experience at this point (I don’t mean that disrespectfully, I’m just not sure how far along your mom is with her memory loss). It is not an easy road but you will find (you may already be aware) that you need to be your mother’s greatest advocate in this journey. I know if I do not step in as my mom’s advocate she has no capacity to advocate for herself. 

I’m sorry you are going through this and best wishes.
If she likes her GP, then I would ask them if they could  explain the steps and scans that are up coming so it sounds like they are coming from them. And it's worth trying to find a neurologist that specializes in dementia. When my mom was 1st diagnosed my dad took her to 3 before he found one that he felt cared. 
Especially at her age it's so important to find out exactly what is going on.
If she likes her GP, then I would ask them if they could  explain the steps and scans that are up coming so it sounds like they are coming from them. And it's worth trying to find a neurologist that specializes in dementia. When my mom was 1st diagnosed my dad took her to 3 before he found one that he felt cared. 
Especially at her age it's so important to find out exactly what is going on.
I just read this the other day.
While most changes in the brain that cause dementia are permanent and worsen over time, thinking and memory problems caused by the following conditions may improve when the condition is treated or addressed:

Depression.

Medication side effects.

Excess use of alcohol.

Thyroid problems.

Vitamin deficiencies.
