Typically they can only do "light housekeeping" so think sweeping, but not a full mop, dishes that the client has used, vacuming in common areas but not areas the client doesn't use, wiping down surfaces but not a full cleaning.
In addition to light housekeeping in the common areas of the house some of my aides also do cooking. They make large portions to freeze so we can take them out later.  They also helped me with organizing the pantry, cabinets, and various closets and storage. I've found that most aides want to stay busy and feel productive, so if your Mom is not particularly needy at certain times, they might like having a list from you of other ways they can help. (Cooking and freezing food and organizing cabinets was actually suggested by the agency we hired the aides from. They also offered to do shopping and provide accompaniment at medical visits.)
Start keeping a list of all the random stuff you do for mom, as it comes up. I wouldn't ask her to clean your personal bedroom but Imo kitchen, toilet, tub, sink, vacuuming, etc are reasonable. Also consider, washing/folding/putting away her laundry, changing her bedsheets. (Keep a couple sets so as soon as one is stripped and put into dirty laundry, the clean one is put on, and show her this). Making her batches of meals that can be frozen and defrosted for her on the off days 

And then companion care like brushing her hair
Other people here gave you some advice so I'll talk a little about the role of home care. 

I work as an HCA (health care aide) which is someone who works at long term care homes or does home care. HCAs typically work with the elderly but we also do infant care. 

It sounds like the home care you are receiving is for a "break" as an HCA I would be expected to do light home work, what does that mean? Basically anything that's not heavy lifting. Vacuuming, cleaning, laundry, cooking, cleaning, and possibly med administration of needed (last one is dependent on your state/province laws). If you are unsure of what the home care entails I'd ask the agencies that is sending them as they would have everything their workers can/can't do as policy, this way you avoid any awkward interactions asking the worker to do something (also if they are lazy they may just not want to do it). Hopes this helps
Thanks!  It felt wrong to ask them to do any cleaning other than Moms room, but I can't think of anything to have them do for 6 hours a week.  But it will be nice to have them checking in when my grandson starts work.
Thank you so much for the information!
Great idea!  I'll have my grandson make a list too.
Thank you.  I talked with the person who came last week and she told me to just ask her if she could do something and she'd let me know, but also warned about workers who may refuse just because they don't want to do anything.  I'll try with the agency again, but so far not having a lot of luck even getting them to stop calling my mom and calling me and my grandson.
I wouldn't stress about it, just keep a notepad on the kitchen table etc and write down the random tasks you and grandson actually do for her benefit, Including making her food, collecting her dishes and even sitting and talking to her. 

Also if you can schedule the person to come in the morning and help her wash up and get dressed, that obviously would help take a load off your shoulders

If you're in the US see [tips here about increasing/keeping the number of hours](https://howtogeton.wordpress.com/facebook-groups-for-medicaid-home-care/).
Thank you for the info.
