I would say have the evaluation before you tell him you think he has dementia.  He's a good age for a general neuro evaluation perhaps try to lead with that.
It might not necessarily be dementia. I would approach it from this direction, "Hey, hon, I've noticed you seem a bit distracted lately. The other day, you were having trouble with the car door. How are you feeling?" If he says he has noticed it too, suggest a check up with his PCP. They can do a better job of determining if this is cognitive decline, or something else entirely (maybe it's a medication, or poor sleep, depression, anxiety, etc..). If he says he hasn't noticed, urge him that he's due for a check-up anyway. Remind him that you care about him and maybe even tell him that he'd be seeing the doctor more for you than for him. When you go see the doctor together, explain what you've noticed and request a Mini-Mental State Exam.

Sometimes, when I was trying to convince my grandma of something, I'd tell her it was for me. It worked because she cared about me, but didn't remember how to care for herself.
IF he is diagnosed, telling him early enough might give him the opportunity to make decisions for himself and his wishes while he still can. If possible, it may be best to have those conversations now, and you can turn to this subreddit for what kinds of questions that might involve. It also would depend on how you see this being received by him. 

We chose not to tell my dad, but he was too far gone for it to have been beneficial. Though my siblings and i have talked about how great it could have been to have caught it early and be able to talk with Dad about his own future.
We've suspected the same thing about my father for the past decade.  He has never been officially diagnosed (and there's not a lot anyone could do even if he was).  We just all started accommodating him and working around his areas of weakness.  Confronting him with what's happening to him, or your concerns about what's happening, doesn't have a lot of point.  He can't do anything about it, and it's quite a depressing reality to have to think about anyway.  I suggest you jump over the diagnosis and discussion step and proceed to the accommodation stage.
Can you both go to a doctor for a medical exam? Just say it’s time for a general check up (maybe even say your insurance company requires it). See if you can find a doctor that will schedule back-to-back visits and explain your concerns to the doctor before the appointment? 

Before my mom’s appointment I sent an email to my mom’s general practitioner with a timeline and a lot of details of her behavior that I found concerning. 

A general practitioner can do a quick mini-memory test and make a referral to a neurologist.
There are several causes of dementia SYMPTOMS that are "fixable", so maybe you can figure out a way to go from that direction.  The info below is not yet public, because i need to make a picture to go with it.

This DRAFT page is written by Truthful Loving Kindness (yes, that is my full legal name) for publishing at http://www.truthfulkindness.com , so PLEASE address any questions or comments to that website, regardless of which website shows these words.   
.  
in my opinion the three major reasons to go for early diagnosis (or diagnosis at any stage) are  
There are several sources of dementia SYMPTOMS which can be resolved or arrested without further progress (if caught early enough).  
Imperative to find out if Lewy Body dementia is in the mix (because majority of dementia brains, at point of autopsy, had more than one type of progressive dementia).  
Diagnosis suggests research for insight on dementia symptoms and strategies, which allow the person to live a better quality of life (and with DIAGNOSIS, the care-partners can often access alternate care for their own doctor appointments, trips to grocery, meditation time, and other forms of self-care).  
.  
Mayo Clinic lists these as some common dementia symptoms.  
Cognitive changes  
Memory loss, which is usually noticed by someone else  
Difficulty communicating or finding words  
Difficulty with visual and spatial abilities, such as getting lost while driving  
Difficulty reasoning or problem-solving  
Difficulty handling complex tasks  
Difficulty with planning and organizing  
Difficulty with coordination and motor functions  
Confusion and disorientation  
Psychological changes  
Personality changes  
Depression  
Anxiety  
Inappropriate behavior  
Paranoia  
Agitation  
Hallucinations  
(above at >> https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/dementia/symptoms-causes/syc-20352013 ).  
.  
Some Reversible Causes of Dementia SYMPTOMS include  (there may be some roll-over on these, because with my own dementia symptoms i cannot remember all the factors for each term).  
Infections and immune-disorders  
Alcohol or substance-use disorder  
Metabolic problems and endocrine abnormalities  
Tumors  
Nutritional deficiencies  
Subdural hematomas, (blood clots beneath the outer covering of the brain)  
Side-effects from medications, or combination of medications  
Normal-pressure hydrocephalus, a buildup of fluid in the brain  
Low levels of thyroid hormones, called hypothyroidism  
Low blood sugar, called hypoglycemia  
HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND)
I’d just say “I notice you struggling sometimes like with words or actions you need to do. Is it bothering you? Is it scaring you? I want to make sure you’re healthy so let’s get it checked out.” 

My grandma knew/ knows she’s having difficulties even though she already meets criteria for dementia. She would tell us and we used to kinda be like oh no it’s okay you’re alright. But once I encouraged her to go for cognitive testing even though she was scared she could admit she needed it. Other people don’t notice that they’re declining. But it’s more likely he’ll be aware of it early on so if you can talk about the concerns with him sooner rather than later he might be more on board.
Why would you tell him?



I guarantee he noticed before you did. My aunt has dementia but she doesn’t seem to know and I certainly don’t want her to know. Can’t imagine how scary it would be to actually know you’ve got dementia and you’re going to wind up like one of “those” people.  Good grief. Don’t tell him.
Wow. That’s a great approach. I see how I can work hat in. Thank you!
Part of my concern is that I know what he would do, and it would break my heart. We watched my mother’s decline, and my sister’s. He would reject the possibility of such a future, and I would lose him too soon.
As I understand it, there are medications that can slow the progression if caught early.
What a selfish mindset, you realize you're only protecting yourself from making this real in your own mind yes? Youre not protecting her, you're protecting yourself at best and no one at all at worst
I see a lot of people in my line of work who had similar 'I'd never want to decline like that' idea's. However, they never really became aware of their own decline, and never decided 'now is the time'. By the time they come into my care, that window is usually long closed. 

You may not lose him so soon. Have the conversation with him, so you'll know what his wishes are in all scenarios. Best of luck with this tough time.
Nothing slows the progression.  Medication help with symptoms.  My husband, also a very bright and engaged person formally diagnosed in 2018 but had issues for awhile before that.  He was diagnosed at a time when he could still make decisions, which is important.  There are legal things to do when you have a spouse with dementia.  Make an appointment with an Elder Attorney.  We went before any diagnosis because you need certain legal documents in place for both of you.  I would never try and hide a diagnosis from my spouse.  He has a right to know and right to determine how he wants to go forward.  My husband talked a lot about suicide but he is still here and has not brought the subject up in quite awhile now.  He will soon be at the point where he won't be capable of making that decision.  How I knew he was struggling before diagnosis: always using GPS even if we were very close to home, not recognizing areas he should have been very familiar with, losing things, not following conversations, forgetting what he was going to say, just looking lost and confused, getting lost in our home, shuffling feet, falling.  You have to go through with getting a diagnosis, maybe this isn't dementia, maybe he has something that can be treated.  BTW, he knows something is wrong, help him get the help he needs to find out what is happening.  Good luck.
Yes, my aunt suddenly went downhill and was only answering questions with one word. I took her to the doctor anD he gave her NamendaXR which is amazing. I mean, everyone is different but she is once again carrying on conversations, walking, laughing — definitely not herself again but she is enjoying life. She thinks the green pills I give her at night help her with getting enough sleep. I tell her they aren’t a cure all but remind her she needs to be able to get up to go to the bathroom in the middle of the night and I think these pills are doing a great job.   Right now, she’s more childlike now and very friendly - overly friendly- to people in the grocery store but most strangers seem to get it and talk to her. She makes unusual statements sometimes, so I just walk past them, shrug my shoulders and say something like sorry, she’s not having the best day.



Have his doctor check for UTIs.  They can cause dementia like symptoms. Call the doctor beforehand, tell them of your concerns and ask them to quietly evaluate your husband without letting him know why.  From here on out, you always need to go to the doctor with him. The doctor can easily say something about blood work, needing more tests,just following up l,l.
I completely disagree. My aunt would be anxious and worried if she knew she had dementia. She’d also be dead.  Right now, she’s having a good time. We go to a movie twice a month, hoping to go to a farmers market twice a month, and she sees her good friend (who is in a wheelchair) twice a month. We would go more places but she uses a walker and gets tired easy. I don’t live in this state. I own a home 3 states over but I surprised her with a visit and found her malnourished, dehydrated and bleeding internally. She wasn’t able to cook for herself and had only been eating 1 frozen Lean Cuisine dinner/day - definitely not enough protein for an elderly person. She had to have 3 transfusions and a procedure to fix her stomach lining and a small hole in her intestine. She was scared to death, slept in her chair and her house was a hoarding house or horrors — all of which I cleaned up and took care of because I was here. Her husband died 30 years ago and since she doesn’t have any kids, I made sure I got 3 other nieces and nephews involved. I make day to day decisions but anything major, the 4 of us come up with a solution that’s best for her. I couldn’t find any towels in her house and only 1 blanket that was disgusting but there were 250 empty Kleenex boxes, over 100 cardboard tubes from toilet paper and paper towels, 1 spoon, 1 lightbulb in the living room and 1 in the bathroom. You couldn’t open the front door, because the unopened mail was over knee high, the carpet was covered with newspapers. There was a path from the back door to her chair and one into the kitchen. There was no space on any kitchen counter, a small chair and the sofa in the family room were completely buried by trash — the list is endless. She made it clear she wanted to live here and not move in with anyone. No one else would have taken the time to clean her house up and make it livable for her. Her own sister wanted to put her in a facility. 


Trust me, I’m far from selfish.
Catching it early enough for medication to slow it’s progress is the reason I feel it necessary to get the evaluation. Otherwise I would do as several have suggested and work to accommodate his symptoms without telling him anything.
My mantra is "let the person giving the care make the care giving decisions". everyone else has an opinion but each situation is unique.
I would speak to the doctor on your own to see what they recommend.
I have enjoyed hearing what works for others. It’s been quite helpful at times. Family members who live 500 miles away who still talk to her on the phone don’t understand the day to day issues or how childlike she is when she gets up and again, when she goes to bed.
Yeah some suggestions are actually super helpful, things I would never have thought of. One thing some folks don't get is that the person being cared for (I'm caring for my mom) is different with different people. What works for one won't work for another.
