Assuming you mean your Dad is having day care in the home as a short-term respite break, I'm gonna advise you not to worry and say it will benefit him and you as his main carers so try not to fret or get yourself too worked up and worried.

It won't have any impact or effect on how his dementia progresses or make any deterioration more or less likely nor will it speed things up or slow it down either.

Caring for a loved one at home is the hardest thing in the world to do bar none and often people find they get such mental and physical relief from occasional respite and day care they start to think about it as a more permanent option so please don't start to doubt, question or burden yourself with any level of guilt if and when that time comes for you and your Dad.

He will be cared for by staff who are trained and experienced and whilst he's enjoying whatever activities, food and care they are giving him, you and the extended family and carers should make the most of time out and take it to relax and recharge.
I so wish there was something  like this for my mom. She is boerd, I know at 1st it would throw her routine off but I know it would help her in the long run. Over the winter she got weaker because we couldn't walk the yard everyday, she is already stronger this spring. She use to go to church twice a week or more,  she is bored,,, she has always been social and busy this would help her so much..  but there is nothing in my area that we can afford. I do have an interview the end on June with a group that might help , fingers crossed. I applied in November and just now hearing from them
My mom did this for my dad a few times before he moved in to assisted living full time.  It was nice to find a quality assisted living place that had the option for my dad to stay a few hours during the day to give mom a break

It was helpful because he started doing a lot more activities than at home.  

He hasn’t forgotten me yet but sometime in the next 1-6 months that is going to happen, but its a function of the disease not a result of him having adult day care, so you shouldnt worry about that
I do the same for my mom.  She calls it kindergarten also lol.  It helps a lot because I work from home and cant entertain her all day.  We also have a personal/companion assistant. It has an assisted living facility attached to it so I’m just preparing her if I have to place her there permanently
Thank you for the kind words! I'll try do as you say :)
Good Luck!
