Usually how it works is the retirement home will do an assessment, is that being offered to you guys? In the assessment they will be able to determine where she should be placed. If they are leaving it up to you, based on what you said I'm guessing at the minimum assisted living if not memory care at this time. 

Yeah, the plane ride might be a big challenge for her! We took our mom on a plane trip and TSA was utterly wonderful in assisting her, but we were also with her. I'd keep in touch with her during layovers if you can.

It's not likely she'll get kicked out of the retirement home, just potentially moved into their memory care unit if she is not placed there initially. I recommend you set her up with a geriatric psychiatrist who can help you figure out what medications can help tamp down some of the aggression she's experiencing. It's very common to have think others are stealing your stuff, and the cursing is pretty impressive at times! A geri psych doctor is the expert on potential meds that can help give her some relief, and you all too. 

Good luck!
Start her off in the basic service, she will need additional services as the disease progresses, but right now she might be fine with what you have set up.  You can always move her later to another facility or a secure floor in the existing facility if she begins to wonder or needs additional supports.
Good Luck.
personally I would have someone fly with her. She may know a routine and be familiar in her own home,but may become confused on such a long trip in an unknown environment. She could get scared  or could also be taken advantage of by someone else during a lay over. Even thought she will have wheelchair assistance who will watch her in between?
Hi . My mom has Lewy body dementia. With regards to traveling if you can get her prescribed something to keep her calm that would be helpful. I agree ☝️ with the previous comment that you should contact her as much as possible through out the travel .
u/LicketyGlitz \- kind of confused about assisted living vs. retirement home vs. memory care.

So basically this particular home has a baseline service ( meals in dining hall , housekeeping 2x a month and weekly linen).

The rest of stuff you can choose  : ie. medication giving, laundry, etc is extra and can be per month or per day

The plan is my mom to be POA and the contact for communcatino, bills, everything.

She just lives there, eats, she can shower etc on her own, and walk down to the cafe for meals ....

we can't afford more right now :(
she doesn't have a firm diagnosis (maybe in canada) but she obviously has age related memory loss at the latest,

thank you!
She will have a layover in istanbul . We will try to find some harmless famly at the airport traveling the same route - (it's common on developing countries to help each other) - yeah i guess it is aslo a test for her independance...although risky
she has a 8 hour flight (likely lot of people on this flight who speak her language, etc) and then a 4 hour layover and then another flight 10 hour (def there will be someone or a few people sepaking her language)

&#x200B;

she will get wheelchair assistance etc so i think it will be ok. not possible to be in touch with her but ill give her some cards with my number to show to someone in case of emergency
im glad there are people that help others out. My thought is if she has bad words for your mom and is suspicious of her why would she trust a stranger. It could cause a difficult situation. if someone agreed to help they may not want to deal with a difficult person . Hopefully that wont be the case . But if she does have dementia who knows how she will react. I hope the best for you and your family.
Thanks. We don't have an official diagnosis for dementia but im sure there is age related loss.

The odd thing is that she is VERY FRIENDLY and VERY TRusting for strangers. i don't know her dynamic with my mom, or reason why behind it. She is fine when I speak to her on the phone but maybe b.c mom is the primary caregiver and living with her, it's spills on her and mom can be irrationally emotionally reactive too at times.

&#x200B;

YEAH it's just how it is. We couldnt get her on the same flight due to cost. ill let you know as update here. she is still 35+ days from day of travel.
