Pretty easy.. create an iCloud family account. Then manage it as if she were your child. You can set downtime for a certain time, block calls, apps, etc. did this to my mom to limit who, what, and stuff she could add on. Eventually tho, the phone will need to go away. She hides her phone a lot these days and really her ability to use the phone has dropped off substantially.
Cancel her for phone plan, hide the charger, or block her calls. Your sister can call you if it’s an emergency.
Take it away; tell her it's in the shop.
My grandma has been begging for her purse and cell phone. Idk what to do. I keep thinking “what could the harm be” aside from her calling all the time (which I wouldn’t mind) I just don’t know if that is safe for her to have while in a ALF. She just got there Monday. It’s almost been a week. She doesn’t understand where she is besides she isn’t home.
I just looked at the App Store, seems they have a few different resources specifically for Alzheimer’s/ dementia patients  and caregivers , might be worth a look at some of these apps
If your sister is there Your mom doesnt need the phone. my husband sometimes asked me for his phone i would just give him the excuse that he lost it or it wasn’t charged. Eventually he stopped asking. If he wants to call anyone i let him use my phone which i dial. That way i can still make excuses if needed, depending on who he wants to call And when .
I restricted my Dad’s phone through the cell phone provider. Only certain numbers ring through and can be dialed, or can be texted (and received). It helped enormously. Over time your mom will lose the ability to use the phone, which is a sign of advancing dementia, as hard as it is right now, patience and kindness are your best friends. I watched this disease progress in my grandmother and that prepared me for my dad.
You might look at teleCalm, which specializes in phone service for seniors with dementia. They have solutions for repeat dialing and late-night calling issues as well as other phone related problems - https://youtu.be/h1Tu-Nv9\_10
😔 this is the worst. All parents so sick. But dementia has to be the worst. Thanks for the advice. I’ll do that. But I also really need her phone to like, stop working around 8pm. We might just have to take it away but she’ll argue.
