Most, if not all people who suffer from dementia are deficient in nutrients. Most “normal” adults are also deficient in nutrients due to the SAD (Standard American Diet). I suggest supplementing vitamins and nutrients in powder form via a fruit shake or a milkshake since I am assuming that swallowing a bunch of pills may not be the best scenario for you.
Just give her a multivitamin. It can be crushed into applesauce or the like. At this stage, optimal nutrition is not going to make a big difference. Any food she gets enough calories from that also brings her pleasure in eating is a win. You can blend veggies into some foods like muffins to get more in her.
A number of the people I care for live solely on finger foods (cookies, sandwich pieces etc) and nutritional supplements such as boost and ensure. I agree with the prev comments in regards to keeping these on hand. There are higher calorie formulations available if need be as well as pudding options. I've encountered very few people who turn them down so fingers crossed your loved one will at least accept these if their diet is otherwise lacking daily.
You could try the drinkable meals, like Ensure. Hope it helps. Seems like picky eating and dementia go hand in hand.
Generally they like sweet foods more. Fruits, peanut butter for protein go well with sweet items. 

Since she eats pasta maybe look into the type of pasta that’s got extra protein like the type made from chickpeas or lentils instead of normal wheat alone
maybe some grapes or a sliced banana. I find that when my spouse says he isn’t hungry if I set food next to him and say well its here if you want and I walk away  he will usually start eating in 5 minutes or so.
Carnation instant breakfast. If she still has a sweet tooth, this can be a way to get some nutrition into her. My grandmother's doctor had suggested getting her Ensure nutrition drinks but they are very expensive. Then I actually met a nurse, on the plane ride to move my grandmother across country and in with my parents, who works at senior care facilities. She suggested Carnation instant breakfast instead of Ensure because it was more affordable but still had the protein and such that the doctors were going for. She said that while it is very sweet, that also made it much more palatable to a senior because they often still need strong tastes to be able to taste anything. Blend it with some icing call it a milkshake.
in mid-to-Late stage there is a good chance she is losing (or has now lost) her sense of taste.  

\>> https://truthfulkindness.com/2022/03/27/food-taste/
My sister has almost completely stopped eating
My mom is eating less and less and has lost a lot of weight. I have been giving her either Boost or Ensure. I add protein powder, yogurt, and sometimes a banana or other fruit and blend it together in the Bullet blender.
I am also a big fan of the shakes like boost or ensure.  Get the glucose control kind since she seems to already eat a ton of carbs. 

Shake plus multivitamin which you should make sure has adequate calcium.  Fiber pills if needed. 

I also put 2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil in one of her meals.  Oil is a ton of calories.  Like 120 for just one tablespoon.  Too much can act as a laxative so I stick with just 2 tablespoons. 

Heavy whipping creme is 400 calories for just half a cup.  The nutritionists seemed to care more about my dads calories than the detailed vitamins and nutrients.
