It sounds like just normal memory loss (my grandma does things like this allll the time but she’s 81 and has had a memory assessment that came back all good, I just got off the phone to her actually as she couldn’t remember an appointment I’d booked for her earlier today- as soon as I told her she was like “yep silly me I remember you telling me now!”). But I’m no expert so I wouldn’t want to give you a definitive answer, just a fellow human who has gone through the early stages / diagnosis process with my grandad.

When my grandad was going through early stages it was his short term memory more than anything. He also started struggling to write things/spell things and would try to do things that he shouldn’t have been doing (climbing ladders, trying to drive despite giving his license up, putting things back in the wrong places such as the butter in the glass cupboard), he also started doing things that made no sense; he poured a cup of tea onto the stove thinking it was the sink, saying he was going to the bathroom but instead walking to the living room. He also started to forget where he was and struggled to do things he had always done (making tea, changing the channel on the TV). Mood is a big one too, my grandad was always a happy go lucky guy and he because really withdrawn, didn’t like seeing people and became really difficult to hold a conversation with and really confused over things he once had no issue comprehending.

How is she other than forgetfulness? Any changes to her mood, eating habits, ability to carry out tasks she’s before had no problem with?

If you’re worried, I would see if she would agree to go to a memory assessment- for peace of mind for you but also if it is early stages you can start looking into support/care/next steps!
In my personal experience there are personality changes first and getting scammed that happen before obvious cognitive symptoms
She’s not young anymore, some memory weakening and/or very mild cognitive decline is normal for elderly. Still, monitor the issue - if she does have dementia, the best thing would be to find out early
Hi thank you for your advice, she's not having problems functioning but I'll keep those in mind incase they ever do come up.
