Respectfully, $15,000 was a waste. When a person has dementia, they are unable to learn a new task. Our dad could not learn to use a walker. Dementia is called the shrinking brain disease it unfortunately cannot be "slowed down". Respectfully, this may be the time for the hard decisions to be made. We, my 5 siblings and I, were able to rotate in and out of our dad's home to take care of him for 2 1/2 years, he died at home on hospice.  He had given me POA and POHC years ago before the dementia. Does her companion have dementia? Having them live alone is scary if there are fires and allowing her to drive is catastrophic. Suppose she injures or kills someone?  Someone does need to be involved, I agree
The only thing that will really slow it down is medication.
I’ve tried to talk to their kids who are older but clearly they don’t want to worry about it. They are putting their heads in the sand and acting like it’s just old age. Regardless, they clearly can’t take care of themselves. 
Thank you for the advice and honestly I felt the same about the program. I felt like it was a scam and they were sold on it like it was going to help her slow down the process. 
Being elderly, they fall for so many scams. They need help but I don’t know how to help them. I also don’t live close to be able to help them weekly.
Could you please file a complaint with the FTC about the company with all the supplements. That is exactly the kind of thing the FTC is looking for.

How else are they getting scammed? How are the scammers finding them?
The same “coach” who sold them the supplement program told them one of the reasons they might be getting “sick” is because of mold. Went in the house and did some test, told them they needed to get someone to remediate the issue. Which was going to cost them money. There was NO mold. House is fairly new. I tried making some calls for them but when I googled, this too is a scam that is run on the elderly.
Con job, hate to say it but the mold "detection" sealed it.

You can have an independent company test for mold for a couple hundred or less. Or do it yourself kits.

Evil is what they are.
My dad used to give out his ssn ALL the time. One day he got boxes and boxes of "braces" he was sold. I spent $70 to send them back and Medicare said if a claim was paid to contact them to support a fraud case. In Illinois, scammers call to get you to use a third-party biller for lights and gas. I started filing complaints with the state regulators. That stopped also.
