Just here to say I feel you. I don’t have anything to offer you, as I’m also just at the beginning of learning how to deal with dementia. But I completely recognise the fear, uncertainty and sorrow. Hang in there.
New to all of this as well and I understand where you're coming from. The only thing that helps me is to take it one day at a time. Everybody is different with different types of neurological regression. You can only do so much, so just focus on getting through each day as peaceful as possible for yourself and your mother. Wish you all the best.
There isn’t much advice I can offer, since I’m neither a professional nor a dementia/Alzheimer’s expert, but I have been dealing with my grandmother’s dementia.

I guess all I can say is, do your best and remember that this is a marathon. You’ll need to work hard, but you’ll also need to pace yourself and keep yourself as stable as possible. Take breaks when you can, seek out support groups when needed, try your best to connect with other friends/loved ones or even communities like this. Just so you aren’t alone.

You’ll probably want to pour in every ounce of your energy into taking care of your mom, and worrying about her, and thinking about her. That’s understandable. But (I speak from experience) that will wear you out quickly if you overdo it. One of the best things you can do for your mom is to take care of yourself as well. Avoid burnout for as long as possible, and when it happens, be kind to yourself. You’re doing your best and nobody is perfect.

But if it’s any consolation, the advanced stages haven’t happened yet. You still have time with her, and there are still happy moments the two of you can have. Or hey, maybe if you’re lucky, maybe it won’t ever get to that level of severity at all. It still sounds relatively early in the timeline, so maybe it won’t get as severe as other cases. 

Best of luck, and I’m sorry your facing this. Wishing the best of luck to you and your mother.
I sorry you and your mother are embarking on this journey we all are on. I've been on it for just a year.

I'm "lucky".  My dementia patient is my husband's uncle who lives states away and I have never met him. Tending to his affairs at arms length with no emotional attachment insulates me from the grief. I got involved because I am caregiver to my MIL who got a breast cancer Dx 2 weeks after FIL died. Six month later, Uncle Larry (never married, no kids, MIL is his POA) was placed in memory care. 80yo MIL can't do him right now so I do what needs done, bookkeeping, file taxes, online bill paying, ordering toiletries etc,  and MIL signs checks and legal documents.  Hubby went to Uncle's state and vetted facilities and closed out his apartment.

For yourself, if you think you may eventually suffer cognitive decline, consider getting Long Term Care Insurance.  See if you can get it thru your job's benefits dept.

For Mom, use this time to get her paperwork in order.  Health Care Directives, Durable Power of Attorney, Trusts, etc.  Find out what accounts she has and get online access, passwords, designate beneficiaries, set up her My Social Security dot gov account.  Know that SS does not recognize POA. Get yourself listed as Representative Payee so that you can step in on her behalf if it comes to that. Some rest homes will get themselves designated so they can get the SS check directly. And they do not have to ask you or Mom. You want to remain in charge so beat them to the punch.

See an Elder Care Lawyer for estate planning NOW. Put as much of her assets into a Trust as you can Home, IRA, 401k, Roth,  I'm not sure if you can do that with a pension. Medicaid has a five year look back period before granting benefits.  Medicaid only allows her to have $2000 in assets if they foot the bill. A pittance after a lifetime of work. Read thru the Medicaid Q& A at Elder Law answers dot com.

If you have siblings, get them actively involved.

And come back here for support and a sounding board.

My best wishes to you and Mom.
At this stage it is just mild cognitive impairment. It may or may not progress much further.
I'm very scared indeed... plus I have problems with anxiety anyway... not sure how I'll handle it. Thanks for understanding :)
Thank you for the kind words. That's why I joined this community. Just so that I can share experiences and get some support.

My grandmother also got it, but she got it pretty late in life, so she passed away without even moving to the moderate stages. My mom is much younger, she's 68, and in generally good health otherwise. My grandmpther's sister went through the entire ilness and passed away from Alzheimer's. It took a great toll on her closer family... we didn't see her aftet the point where she couldn't remember people anymore, but I know that they were crushed by experience. I never knew it gets that bad...
Thank you, I was also considering all these practical issues as well. Unfortunately everything that you mentioned is important too...

I'm not fro USA, so I guess the legal things are a little different here. For myself, everyone is usually on the public retirement fund program and on a private retirement fund program. But I think I need to have extra savings just for this expense. I don't have any children yet, but even if I do, I would not want to be a burden. The good thing is, I think my mom's pension and savings might be enough to cover all her expenses. My dad is determined to care for her the entire time, but he will have to accept the reality and hire a nurse at sone point, and unfortunately a time will come where he will not be able to care for her at home anymore.

I don't have any siblings, but I am still concerned about her assets. She made some unusal purchase proposals these last few months that really struck me, but I thought, OK, she just retired, let her enjoy life. Luckily my dad talked her out of it. She agreed not to drive anymore, but if things get worse, we should probably get her driving license recalled. And probably some time in the future she should give my dad right to handle her finances. I think that's a simple process here especially if the person has a diagnosis. I think inheritance here is automatically to the children and spouse, but I guess we have to make sure she doesn't do anything irrational. Though I think any document signed by a person with this kind of diagnosis is automatically invalid here. We will see how it goes if things get worse...

I don't want to be thinking too much about these kinds of things right now, but I guess as time goes by, it will become more important.
