Medicare does not pay for home aides or assisted living/memory care/nursing homes.

you would have to spend down her SSDI lump sum so that her assets do not exceed $2000.  Consider spending it on grab bars and other safety measures.  Pre-pay her funeral.

I found the Elder Law Answers dot com website very helpful with spend down advice.

&#x200B;

In the mean time, get health care directives, Durable Power of Attorney, Trusts, etc in order.  also get bank account passwords and such so that you can manage her affairs. Social security does NOT recognize Power of Attorney. get yourself listed as Representative Payee so that you can manage her SS when it comes to that. Make sure her bank acct, 401K, Roth, have designated beneficiaries.
She’s gonna need medicaid for the home aides. Medicare is better coverage for private practice doctors (e.g. outside hospitals) but no coverage for home aides.

I highly recommend this website to see what your options are for spend-down if her income or assets get to be too high for Medicaid. https://www.medicaidplanningassistance.org/state-specific-medicaid-eligibility/

If you spend down the $6500 (pay off debt, home modifications, pre-pay other anticipated services like utilities) before July 1 it shouldn’t be an issue. 

if you anticipate lots more lump sum backpay, a special needs trust may be necessary.
This is VERY helpful thank you so much. All of my mothers debt was paid off last year and she rents, so that leaves very little room for the spend down. I also see she can’t pre pay rent or utilities. If anything I may just do the funeral route but I have to look into it some more.  

I also discovered that my mom had 18k in a 401k from her previous employer. Idk if that counts as an asset either. 

You also reminded me I have to take my mom to the SS office for the representative payee process, they sent a letter in the mail when she was approved for SSSI last week. I have POA but need to check if it’s durable.  I’m overwhelmed but glad you commented with this information. It’s very helpful thank you.
Thank you SOO much. It’s kind of crazy how I now wish my mom was in debt. She paid off all of her debt last year thanks to a gift from her brother. And home modifications can’t really be done because we rent. 

It’s crazy to think I’m considering the new car route (very likely would buy a used car) and/or the burial/funeral expense route. It’s only $6500 so it’s not like the motherload but it’s obviously still something. 

It seems fitting to now pay for a visit or two with an elder law attorney to ask some questions and get some straight forward answers. I hope that’s okay to do  with the lump sum money. I’m just so confused about it all
>18k in a 401k from her previous employer

That counts as an asset.

Consider hiring an elder law attorney to help you with this.  The legal fees count towards the spend down and it is SO much easier than trying to figure it out on your own.
Could she use any mobility aids? An adjustable bed? Those will count. Does she have a will or a health care POA drawn up? She might be able to spend some of that money to have those drawn up
How about assistive tech? iPad? Hearing aids? (those alone will eat half your lump sum lol). New glasses? shoes? Lighting? installation of grab bars? robot vacuum? smart speakers?
I think legal expenses are fine
Can the money be given as a tax free gift to the OP?  And she can just hold on to it for… whatever?
She’s able to walk on her own right now and has had an adjustable bed for 20+ years now. Maybe a new mattress would be helpful. I really wish there were an explicit list of do’s and don’t of what to buy because I’m finding some resources but nothing specific to this situation. 

I scheduled a consultation with an elder lawyer for this Thursday. This is a very weird situation to be in I’ll admit. All my life my mothers never had money and now she has the most she’s ever had. Now this money can place her in a not favorable circumstance.
I feel so weird saying no to this, none of this is needed right now. But will very likely be helpful in the future. My mom's getting grab bar through the Medicaid long-term care plan. All I can think of is we need a new vacuum... maybe a Dyson? I don't know, to be honest, I'm scared to even touch her money right now until I talk to the lawyer.
Done, I scheduled a consultation with our local elder law attorney for Thursday. Time is ticking until July 1st so I feel like I'm a little under pressure but very glad to have this subreddit.
Based on what I read that's a transfer of assets and a big no-no. But I read there can be an agreement written up to "pay me for the caregiving services" but they can't be a pre-payment for my "services". I'll talk to the elder law attorney about all the options.
