I'm sorry. I (kind of) get it. 
My dad was a narcissist, and died a few years ago. My mom was his enabler for 40 years. She has a good heart, and she loves us. I'm learning not to pity what she went through with him, because she made her own choices. She recently moved in with us, and holy crap. It's a whole new level of WTF. 
Between myself, my SO, a 17 yr old, and a 10 year old,  I definitely feel that sandwiched generation.
A commentor on one of the other threads today uses her health plans free counseling service as a great place to vent.  Here too of course.  So many of us dealing with boundaries.
I’m sorry. I’ve been there, too.
I’m so sorry. I don’t have any advice, just understanding. This sandwich generation thing is real and it’s very difficult.
I'm with you. I have a nearly 4 year old and a 5 month old. My mom is on her 4th rehab stay this year even after moving her to a senior building with a daily caregiver. I'm cleaning out her old apartment and trying to figure out all her finances because she's just not doing it. I get it, it's rough.
Thanks for sharing that here and that is a very hard position to be in. Are they religious at all or do they have a place of worship they attend? That might be a good place to contact to see if someone can check on them through out the week to make sure they are okay, give you some peace of mind, and help you maintain appropriate boundaries.
I'm sorry. I've been there before and it was rough.
Have you spoken with your parents about their plans for their next residence  Because if your dad is falling already, its only a matter of time before he breaks something, and that (my parents and I have decided) is the trigger.
Small rant:

People love to pretend to care about folksy 3rd world sayings about villages and taking care of each other...

But I am a bit shocked at how many people just up and seperate from immediate family.  

Aging, decline, and death is inevitable.  

Moving across the country and pretending to be shocked at the clusterfuck of long-distance management is almost funny.

It's hard enough when it is local.

Seems like calling someone a narcissist is some reddit free pass for disregarding a family relationship.  Very casual use of that label round here.
From reading this subreddit I really believe it is rare for it to work out well, living with an elderly parent
I've been doing the same and it is so helpful. The counselor I found is going through the same dementia journey with her mom that I am on, but her mom is much more advanced. It has been a blessing to talk to a professional who can help me put all of this in perspective.
>Seems like calling someone a narcissist is some reddit free pass for disregarding a family relationship.

You seem to be under the impression that we should just tolerate bad behavior simply because someone is family. Or that we need to allow ourselves to be mistreated because someone is family.

You would be incorrect. We don't have to tolerate bad behavior from anyone, ESPECIALLY family.

Edit:  
I promise you. After decades of being treated like crap on her shoe by my own mother, I have zero intention of taking care of her if something should happen beyond making sure she's housed, fed, safe. Anything else, my brother can do since he's the golden child anyway.
Agree.   If I (63) somehow had to live with my mom (89) it would be a disaster, but keep in mind that this sub is hardly an unbiased sample.  If there is anyone out there living happily ever after with an elderly parent, they aren't posting here!
"We don't have to tolerate bad behavior from anyone, ESPECIALLY family."

This is the lesson I give to my children. Don't put up it, especially from the people that are SUPPOSED to love you!

I am not taking care of my parents either. Sure, I will go drop off a meal, but no freaking way am I changing adult diapers or managing your prescriptions. I have so much baggage, it's never gonna be unpacked!
I am 66 and my mom is 96. I love her and she is a good person but she would drive me crazy. And she would be so bored. Assisted Living gives her all the socializing and activity that she needs.
Same for my mom.  I think she also loves the gossip and small town drama at her facility!
