I'm not sure why your doctors are perplexed; the only predictable thing about Alzheimer's (if that's what it is, since you mention "dementia meds") is that it's unpredictable. It goes by leaps, bounds, and plateaus. 

My partner (also 61) is similar, although I can't offer you a look ahead. Diagnosed with Alz half a year ago. Just shy of a decade ago, started having really explosive anger issues over (cue Seinfeld theme music) nothing. Anxiety, depression. Segue into active suicide effort 2018. Threats and suicidal ideation ever since. Not until late 2021 did docs finally see "typical" Alz patterns, and connect the dots I'd been trying to call to their attention for years. 

I think a mild Omicron Covid bout (triple vaxxed) made it more obvious: executive, memory, judgment either showed obvious deficits, or (more likely) she was no longer able to cover up and smooth over lapses so those around her didn't notice. 

From what I've seen on Reddit and elsewhere, Covid or other seemingly unrelated "shocks" (for lack of a better term) to the system—a serious fall, broken bone, impactful change in family or living situation—seemingly can cause an abrupt, permanent lurch downhill. That's my non-doctor impression, anyway.
sorry to hear about your struggle ! My mom progressed extremely fast… she was finally diagnosed in 2018-19 and from there she just got worse and worse. The little things she did like sweep or do the dishes she stopped doing after a month or two, she did become aggressive with me but those were sorta rare but she was aggressive with my dad. It has the good days and bad days, I always try to start off her morning in a good note by being extremely cheery and upbeat and being overly nice, but if she was in a bad mood i would have to calmly talk to her and validate her feelings and just reassure her that whatever the issue it will be taken care of and try to re-direct her to do things she enjoys doing. 

There’s really not much you can do but just listen and be reassuring, she’s just confused and frustrated because she doesn’t understand what’s
going on. It’s hard for the care taker cause you’re basically taking care of a reverse baby. Eventually she was progressing too fast, for a month she refused to eat, she was going to the bathroom
in her clothes and sometimes refused to go to the bathroom, depth perception was pretty bad so she was afraid to walk… she’d get mad over small things but she also would be happy about small things. In the short 4-5 years she was diagnosed her neurologist said her dementia is really severe and eventually we had to place her in a nursing home. mainly for my mental health and because I wasn’t able to take care of her they way she needed to be taken care of anymore. It breaks my heart but it’s better for the both of us.
This might be a long shot, but you could get her tested for a b12 deficiency.  This type of deficiency damages the brain and the nerves.  It can cause dementia and psychiatric symptoms if the deficiency is extreme.  If it is caught early enough, b12 supplementation can reverse some of the damage.
I think her doctors were perplexed because she didn't present initially with the "true dementia" signs. Memory was more or less in tact initially. I think the behavior was more erratic and signs of major major depression were there without other features of the disease.

I definitely agree with you that COVID made this much more apparent. I questioned her behavior years ago when my husband and family said it was because she was a psychiatric mess post her divorce. I think she actually became more impulsive and decided to divorce due to the disease. She had a few major life shocks and quickly progressed into a worse spot.

I am so sorry you have to deal with this nasty disease. I can only speak for myself and say that this has been really hard on my family. I can't imagine what it does to the person either. My MIL is living with us now and it's tough for everyone...
Have they thought about Frontal Temporal Dementia - Behavioral Variant?
