I haven't had to travel the same road as you, my mom is much younger and is declining physically, not mentally. But from where I'm standing, you have absolutely nothing to feel guilty for. You've cared for her for years, and I can't imagine the sacrifices you've made because of it. 

Sometimes our greatest strength comes in recognizing our limits, and it's fair to yourself and your mother to admit you've reached yours. You're doing a great job.
It sounds to me like you've cogently identified real constraints that justify the move in your post. 

I've been telling my parents that independent living is over when they fall and break something, or when mom does (because she takes care of my dad), and they get that.

If your mom is already in a facility, I'd keep her there (and not bring her back home). From following this site, I've seen that moving only ever goes one way, out of necessity.
For me it was after she had her stroke andI knew she needed more than I could give.  Its a hard decision, and I felt guilty after, but I know she's in the best place.  Just be sure to research and find one you believe can give her the best
Transitioning from a SNF to assisted living will be easier than starting from scratch.  Her current facility probably has staff for social work or discharge planning that can help identify places and set things up for you.

If she  is a fall risk, needs help with self care and has dementia, she needs more care than one person can provide.  Getting her the amount of care she needs is the right thing to do and you can feel good about doing so.  

It is perfectly normal to be unhappy, angry, confused, or overwhelmed about the situation, but it certainly isn't your fault.
No guilt - this is about what is best for mom.  With her medical issues, your best role is visiting daughter who's watching out for mom.  Let the professionals do the heavy lifting while you enjoy your relationship with mom by reading to her, giving her a hand massage, singing with her, taking her out for a walk or applying lotion to her feet.  She has enough issues that a facility with staff who have been doing this work for years is the best care option.
Is time ❤️ there are lovely places out there, believe it or not. Perhaps a board and care? I'd take this time to go visit and read reviews You can still visit every day possibly multiple times. There are things they can provide including skilled 25 hour care, medications and therapies that are really wonderful! You'll see she is in a good place and give your conscious a rest.
My Mom’s doctor at Kaiser Permanente looked at her history during a hospitalization--yet another fall over the past 5-6 years.  He basically ordered a social worker to evaluate her and that she could not be on her own anymore.  

My Mom’s ALF evaluated her themselves, to determine Independent or Assisted status, and what level of assistance.
Thank you for your wisdom I know objectively what I need to do but emotionally it is hard. Prayers for your mom as well.
Exactly what we did. Mom fell so she went from hospital to assisted living. Moved her own furniture in while she was on her way in the ambulance.
Thank you for your insight. I think it is easier when things happened so fast and now we have ended up at this snf which will make the transition, for both of us, hopefully a little easier. Prayers for your parents too.
Thank you for your kind words. I can’t imagine what it must have been going through her stroke. I thought my mom was having a stroke that night but thankfully she didn’t. I realize it’s time for me most likely but it isn’t easy. Prayers to your mom.
Thank you for your insight. Yes she is needing more care than I can provide or have been providing. She had a case manager so I will begin to work with her. Thank you.
Thank you for your words. I know she will get the care I can’t give her and you are right I can try and do those things for her.
Thank you for your kind words. I will research some of those facilities and see what I can do.
The same for you and yours.  I do find that all things work out in the end, so stay strong.
You have a wonderful opportunity to be mom's best advocate.  Support the caregivers and help them tailor their care as closely as possible to your mother's needs.  You showing up and being positive with the staff is the best guarantee that your mother will receive the care and attention she requires.  Keep going!
