What are your goals? You won’t be able to get her to stop drinking, which means it’s unlikely you will be able to get her to stop being violent. Unfortunately the nature of alcoholism is such that she likely will not stop until her cognitive decline prevents her acquiring alcohol.
She's an alcoholic.  You should join alanon if she won't do anything.
How old is everyone involved? What doesn’t your father understand….that his wife is abusive? What symptoms of dementia does she have?
I strongly recommend Alanon and/or Adult Children of Alcoholics meetings. You said "I get it" when someone else recommended this but you really don't. What you are doing and saying is classic behavior of an Adult Child. You're trying to rescue your Mom, your Dad, and probably a string of others but actually you are not helping any of them. And in the process you're exposing your kids to sick and dysfunctional behavior (including yours).
try buying non alcoholic versions of her drink of choice and swapping it maybe
Tomorrow I’m taking my dad to their gp, so I’d like some advice on what to clarify so he understands the situation from other perspectives, not just my mom’s.
Yeah I get it, but I really want to give my dad peace at this point in his life.
Me, female 48, brother 2 alcoholic 55, brother 3 63.  My dad just loves her for the person she once was. She repeats nonstop, drinking or not, idk, not sure if it’s a drinking or dementia? She is very violent and aggressive most of the time. She really is put out with men in general, except for my sons and husband
If she’s good at “hiding” her behavior, you could always try taping her during one of the rages. My dad had to do that because she would manage to keep the filter during the appointments. It was eye opening for the doctor.
Does she have a primary care physician? You can make an appointment with them and go in and describe her symptoms and ask for her to be screened for dementia. Tell them about the extent of the drinking as well. Does she ever go in for checkups? Otherwise, don’t let her be physically abusive….you are all adults. Do you all live together?
I’m taking my dad to their gp tomorrow, so I will address it then. I live nearby, oldest bro lives on their property, middle bro lives close by in an apartment for now.
I get a call about once a week we’re she is out of control. My dad Refuses for me to call police. I go over to their house 2 to 3 times a week. I’ve helped her off of the driveway, scooped her up off of the porch, and general helped her into bed while she’s screaming and hitting me. All drunk.
