My mom fell and broke her hip and her wrist. She couldn't go home because she couldn't walk and her house was not set up for a wheelchair and couldn't be. Initially she was placed in the rehab wing of the nursing home and we hoped she'd be able to walk again and come home. Her dementia ratcheted up to the point that she wasn't doing the rehab the way they wanted and she was attempting to escape. At one point she managed to get through the alarmed front door because if you push on it long enough, it lets go because of some fire safety thing.

My sister was her POA and she decided Mom couldn't go home ever and had her admitted to the memory care wing. I was angry with her for this because I imagined Mom's life was going to be nothing but misery from that point. How could she possibly stand being locked up like that? I was wrong. Yes, Mom overdramatized some things and got angry because she wasn't allowed to go home, but when my siblings and I weren't around, she was happy. I'd often watch from the doorway of the public room and Mom would be talking to the other residents or trying to help them if they were upset. She found a purpose, got it in her head she was working and living there, and liked her "job". 

It was hard for everyone, but in the end, she was safe there, we could go visit and just be her kids and not worry about all the things we'd been dealing with for the past several years. She'd get angry at us and demand to go home. We'd tell her that when her doctor said she could, we'd be happy to take her home. She never realized until after he was gone who her doctor was when he'd come to see her, so there wasn't a chance he was one of those reorienting jerks who would tell her she'd never go home. (there will be some of those, unfortunately) We called poke avoidance of telling her kicking the can down the road. It was better for everyone for her to have hope of getting out.

Just go as often as you can. You don't have to stay long if it's stressing her out. Make sure the staff knows you're a frequent visitor so they pay attention to her. I know that sounds bad, but depending on the facility, it could be necessary. Try to get to know some of the staff so they tell you how she's doing while you're on the way to her room or wherever she is, so you know what to expect. Having a good relationship with them helped all of us because we worked together to see that she was taken care of.

This is getting far too long so I'll stop.
We moved my mom on the 15th. She is also 'young': just 71. Late middle stage. Good physical health. A similar situation to yours, I think. The move went better than expected, actually. She is settling in OK. Still having some emotional moments as she adjusts, but the staff say she's doing well, and she seems well when we visit her. 

We knew she would be resistant to the move, so we did not tell her in advance. We just prepped her room, drove her over there, and explained that she needed to stay at the facility for a couple weeks so they could 'run some medical tests'. We also told her that my dad was scheduled to undergo surgery during this period so he couldn't care for her at home.

She was extremely upset. Lots of tears and recriminations toward my dad and I. It was super hard. We stayed with her only about ten minutes, tried to reassure her as much as possible, then left. She calmed down afterward, and has been participating in activities and making friends.

She doesn't remember our 'cover story' for why she's there, but she seems to grasp that she is there to stay. We didn't tell her that (we were prepared to lie to her about her needing to be there 'one more week' indefinitely) but she seems to intuitively understand that she lives there now. She has yet to ask when she can come home. That surprised us! She definitely was not willing to accept any kind of professional care before and she freaked out whenever we discussed hiring a caregiver, so we expected a LOT of resistance once she got to the facility. But now that 'the worst has happened' and she's there, she seems to accept it.

It's hard. I won't lie to you. This has been the hardest thing I've ever experienced in my life so far, and the guilt is very real. The transition is incredibly difficult for everyone involved. But now that Mom is in memory care, my dad and I are better able to see that the move was necessary and we really couldn't continue caring for her at home. She gets more attention at the facility and has access to a wider range of activities, and she's fairly content so far. So sometimes, the move goes better than expected.
I know some people have had rough days at the beginning, but my family member did not.  She has been at three facilities (1 assisted living and 2 memory care).  To be honest, the beginning phase for her has been like a honeymoon period between her and the staff.  They tended to dote on her in the beginning and she responded positively.  She's had more trouble over time as the relationship with staff has worn down.

She went willingly to all three.  I discussed it with her beforehand and asked what she wanted.  I played up whatever aspect I thought she would like most about the place.  I also asked her what items she wanted, what she wanted me to buy for her, what color she wanted for her bedspread, etc.  I figure that this helps her feel more in control.

She was nervous on the first day and a little teary, but other than that, the beginning phases have all gone well.
It is far better to get her into a facility sooner rather than later. It’s good that you are not to the point where an inevitable crisis dictates when and where she ends up. Dementia NEVER gets better. They remember far less that we assume. The guilt is deep seated and real, but know you are doing the best for her out of love. 

Make your own self care a true priority. Caregivers can, and often do, suffer greater health issues overall than the one they care for. 

Find a local dementia support group if you don’t already have one. My group helps me make healthy decisions by understanding the options and outcomes. We’re in this together.
My husband's Uncle Larry, 76, never married no kids, was states away in the hospital for 6 months before going to Memory Care.  Hubby told him for several weeks that he would be moving to a new apt. Hubby visited daily for a couple weeks while he cleaned out Uncles old apt.  His facility allowed him to bring his own bed, bedding, night stand, recliner, desk, pictures. He sits at his desk most mornings and "works".   Uncle Larry said the new apt was nice but sometimes he wanted to go back to his own apt. He eventually got over that. Its been a year.
Thank you so much!
Your Mum sounds a lot like mine, 70, healthy and adamant about not going into care ever. This Wednesday Mum is going into respite care and if she is not violent and doesn't wander too much she will be able to become a resident. She doesn't know she is going Wednesday.

I'll have the room set up and she can even take her cat. But I know Mum is going to lose her shit. Was there anything you've done or said that helped the most?

Thank you
I needed to hear this, and I need to find a group. Thank you!
