She very likely won't believe you if you tell her that she has dementia, she may not understand what it means to have dementia, she may be defensive and combative about it, and quite possibly all of the above. I'd seriously look for other ways to manage her behaviour. Have you encountered the idea of a therapeutic fib? For folks with dementia, sometimes the gentlest and most caring way to support your loved one through their day is to try and see the world through their eyes and bend the truth to align with their pov. Like with the shirt, instead of insisting that she'd seen/worn it before, you might have said something like... "Oh really? You don't recognize it? Maybe you used to have one kind of like it and that's what *I'm* remembering. Either way, I think the colour will look pretty on you and if you don't like it I can grab another option from your room."

It can feel maddening to turn away from objective reality as a caregiver, but it very often helps keep your loved one more grounded and can actually help you preserve your sense of peace a little bit.... 

So tl;dr - I wouldn't bother telling her she has dementia. Consider fibbing more.
No. She does not have the ability to retain/learn new information anymore. And it is distressing to hear someone tell you that your brain is deteriorating and there is nothing you can do about it. So there is no reason to say it to her. 

She only has this very moment she is living in right now … she doesn’t remember the past, and can’t plan for the future. All she has is NOW.

Your only job is to constantly be in the moment with her, and make every moment as good as it can be. It’s like the worst improv theater training ever… but making her final life stage as pleasant and easy as possible for her requires this of you. 

I’m sorry.
>I tell her that her memory is extremely bad and she forgets things after minutes. She does not believe me.

My gut instinct says that if this is the case, telling her she has dementia also isn't going to help. She won't believe you, and she'll probably feel attacked or like you're undermining her. It's such a delicate balance, that phase when they're still aware enough to know *something is wrong*, but also aware enough to know that *dementia is bad, memory loss is terrifying, and I cannot possibly have that*. IMHO that's the most difficult phase of this horrible process, but there are so many difficult phases it's hard to say for sure. 

All I can say is from my own experience and reading about others, which means this is 100% anecdotal and not in any way scientific. During this phase, folks are absolutely *not* receptive and are likely antagonistic to any suggestion they are having memory loss or dementia, because they are aware of how much they're forgetting (though they would never ever admit it), and *also* still aware enough of everything to understand that forgetting so much is a *very very bad thing.* Add to that the fear of what the future may bring, and you've got a perfect storm. I think this is the major denial phase and, depending on the patient, *may* be the hardest phase to deal with. (There's never really an "acceptance" phase, but there is, eventually, a phase where they don't really realize that things are badly off kilter. But there are also later phases when there is possible physical aggression, so this very much is personality- and patient-dependent.)

Best I can do is advise you to tread very cautiously.  

What worked for us, in getting mom to a doctor, was collecting a number of examples that weren't *too* bad (we didn't say "you forgot your brother's name," we said "You weren't sure whether to talk to someone in English or German"), and then suggested that these were maybe symptoms of an organic issue like a tumor or something else that is curable. Because the worst, absolute worst thing about facing a dementia diagnosis is knowing that *that's it. It is all downhill from here and there is no way to stop it.* I say this as someone who has a very high likelihood of developing the dementia that is rampant in my family. It's *terrifying.* 

If you can present here concrete but not *too* terrible examples of memory issues, and then say you're worried that maybe it's a brain tumor and early detection is key, that may help. I made a list of relatively minor things ("I told you this Saturday, you didn't remember on Monday"; "You put this down here, and couldn't find it again") and included examples from other family members to make sure it didn't seem like it was just me. 

It worked with my mom, even though we have a super strong family history of Lewy Body Dementia. I honestly think it worked only because she was far enough down the hole that she wasn't able to connect the dots between her family history and what was happening with her, so it may not work for you if you have family history and your mom's still capable of connecting those dots. 

But I think the way to go is to avoid mention of dementia and focus on *anything else* that it could be. I mean, UTIs in elderly people cause absolutely wackadoo side effects and are easily treated, so there's a suggestion. Brain tumors, some sort of hormonal imbalance... whatever you can think of that can cause similar symptoms *but can be handled*. 

And absolutely, if at all possible, speak to the doctor or doc's assistant prior to the appointment and explain your concerns, and go with her to the appointment. Tell her it's because you want to advocate for her, make sure the doctors don't mess with her, be able to write down what they tell her, whatever. My dad and I both went to my mom's initial appointments, and I can tell you that if I hadn't been there she would've been misdiagnosed because my dad, too, was in denial about her symptoms. 

I hope this is helpful. As I said, this is based only on personal experience and the experience of friends and acquaintances, so this is in no way scientifically based, it's just anecdotal evidence that I think is worth considering.
This is a useful list of what not to say to people who have dementia and what to say instead.

[https://www.completecare.ca/blog/things-not-say-dementia/](https://www.completecare.ca/blog/things-not-say-dementia/)
We chose not to, she spent years working w patients and it would have made it all the worse.

I have it and wish I was one of those that simply don't see what's going on. Waking up every day knowing is horrifying.

It also makes me want to check out while I still have the option, when I see that tipping point.

I wouldn't.
She won’t remember that you told her. 

It all goes better if you don’t discuss her lack of memory. When she doesn’t recommend the top you hand her, say, “oh, it must be new,” and change the subject right after. Engaging and explaining all day is exhausting for you and won’t improve things.
I wouldn’t tell her; UNLESS MAYBE she directly brings up the issue on her own, and asks why does she forget things.

Telling her that she’s “supposed” to recognize some item, doesn’t help. It is just terrifying and too scary to handle.

At worst, she will become convinced that everyone telling her she has dementia, it’s part of a master plan to gaslight her. Then she won’t believe anything you say.

It sucks and it feels horrible actually having to lie constantly and make up plausible reasons she doesn’t recognize things, literally it’s like gaslighting her so that she doesn’t believe you’re gaslighting her.
I wouldn’t either. I would redirect. Like with the shirt: I’ve never seen it before “oh, do you like it?” 

Anything that makes her really angry I would avoid. Really frustrating for you, but frustrating for her too in another way.
My advice is to only do things that help either her or your family. Getting her and yourself  upset over this when she would just forget it immediately is a futile exercise. Even if she know this and retains it, not sure what benefit would that achieve. In my experience I even gave her the printed diagnosis and she still wouldn't believe it or would get sad and then forget about it in 10 min. It's a waste of time.

It sounds like you need help and now. Not sure where she is at physically but if she is forgetting almost immediately, I think you should consider daily caregivers and constant supervision and/or getting in line /ready for nursing home. Also consider childproofing the house including wandering prevention. You should get her diagnosed and get medical help (memory med + psychiatric/anti-anxiety if she has anxiety, delusions, agression, etc.). Sounds like she has some anxiety at least.
I agree with many of the comments here- I wouldn’t.  We tried telling my mom because we tried to explain and reason with her as to why she needed to move to assisted living and why she has to stop driving.  She would become absolutely enraged every time we gently tried to broach the subject.  As her luck would have it, she developed breast cancer (fortunately just oral chemo, no surgery or radiation, and a very treatable form), so we spun the story that she had to temporarily go to AL so nurses could help her until she got better.  It worked every time we had to explain it (over and over again).
Just go with her reality it’ll be easier on both of you. She seems to be past the point of having insight to her condition. Earlier on she may have known but now it’s too much for her to understand. Her brain tells her that’s a new shirt, just roll with it. Yes isn’t it nice? Try it on for me and see if you like it. It won’t seem odd to her at all, although I know it’ll be weird for you. That part is hard. But just think about how when you were three years old or so I’m sure she used some fibs to get you to do what she knew was best for you. You don’t hold it against her and she wouldn’t hold this against you either.
Thanks, I appreciate the reply.

I have gone with her to her GP for her "assessment" before. They took blood, then the GP began asking the usual questions "Can you tell me what you did yesterday? at which my mom got extremely upset and we could not continue the appointment.

I also previously on another appointment took a video of her at the GP (with permission from GP). She always says she has no diabetes and needs no pills. That's why I took the video. When we showed it to her agreeing to everything the GP was saying, she refused to believe that woman in the video was her.

After a certain time, my father refused to get her assessed saying that they will take her away from home immediately. I checked with the nurses and they said that is absolutely not the case. But I cannot convince my father and obviously he's in control here.

So here we sit, as it all gets worse and worse. We are her only carers apart form once a week nurse visit (its for a wound on her foot, nothing else).

I started to apply for the program where a third party visits on behalf of the government and helps out with cleaning etc. My father made me cancel the application. "Do it when it's worse." But the application is very useful, free, and takes 6 months plus to actually begin. Very stubborn man.

EDIT: The reason we showed her the video because she refused to believe she agreed to take any sort of medication and that we were trying to poison her.
Take care, mate.
I’m so sorry. Wishing you peace.
My grandma also just related to me that she hopes she can go from functioning at her current level to just dead. I don’t blame her at all. She meant naturally like she wants to be able to do things until her time comes but I know how much that is important to her and I almost hope the same for her to be honest. 

If that isn’t the case though and odds are it won’t be, I hope she has things she still enjoys like Westerns on TV, country music, and setting the thermostat to 100 degrees lol. I hope she still is able to find joy in the simplest of things, and I hope that you can find those small joys too. 

It’d be cool to make a list now of all the simple things you love like a cup of tea or looking at flowers or heavy metal or whatever it is for you lol. Things that you can go back to later or even just recognize at potential future joys. Like yeah that’ll suck but I’m going to play my favorite records and it might suck less. 

Also don’t lose hope. Research is continuing 💛
Oof, if she's *also* refusing to talk to the doctors about this, that's a big problem. Has she signed a HIPAA waiver that allows you to speak to her doctors about her health? (If not, it sounds like it will be hard to get her to sign one now, but you might try anyway.) What has the GP's response been to what you've said? I mean, the fact that you needed to take a video, and that asking about memory made her so upset she had to leave, should have set off major alarm bells for any doctor. 

But if even the doctor can't or won't convince her she needs help, *and* your dad is now stonewalling, there just isn't going to be a lot you can do unless she's a danger to herself or others. Encourage your dad to educate himself, though; maybe you can get him to see reason. There are a lot of articles, blogs, or posts on this sub written by family caretakers that should make clear to him that that she's *not* going to get taken away just because she's got a diagnosis, and that this *is* a major issue. 

Good luck with this. It sucks all around.
