Add magnetic child locks to all cabinets (Rev loc or tot lock or similar, the ones which need a magnet key to be opened) and change out a closet knives for a keypad lock (we like schlage) and put all the non-food dangerous stuff behind a lock. 

Consider leaving out snacks etc on the counter at all times.
I'd let her, if it's safe. 🤷
Usually with my dad, we made it a habit to not leave anything out that we don't want him interacting with, including foods. But also the opposite, we just leave the food he eats (fruit, yogurt, biscuits etc.) out or at this seat in the kitchen. We'll usually just make him tea/coffee and just put it in front of him with some biscuits, leave it up to him if he wants it or not (usually it's 50:50). Freedom is a big thing, he hates being told what to do or not so it might be something to consider also. Hope you all the best!
I keep a big bowl of snacks (junk food) for my aunt and a small bowl of fresh fruit on a small table in the living room. I also place some of her protein drinks and 1-2 bottles of water on ice in another bowl. She used to try to make things but after I watched her turn on the oven before she left the kitchen (for no reason), I began asking her what she wanted any time she approached the kitchen. It took 5-6 weeks but she rarely goes in the kitchen on her own now. There’s a counter as you go into the kitchen. I usually keep more snacks, napkins, paper towels, plates and some silverware on top, and added a small trash can underneath it. (I removed 2 of the kitchen stools so everything is easy to get to.) Sometimes, if she has refused to eat lunch or dinner, I make her a milkshake or put out a small plate of cheese slices, 2-3 olives and a piece of salami or something and a small packet of crackers. Or, maybe a small bowl of fruit salad and muffins. Anyway, she usually gets distracted by something on that counter, grabs something and forgets what she came in for. I also told her the stove top was broken (it’s not) and bought an electric skillet which I use now. I keep the skillet in a lower cabinet and since it is too heavy for her to lift, she doesn’t try to cook now. Unrelated but … After I had to rearrange the furniture in her bedroom to accommodate her walker and moved the charger for her hearing aid to a different table, I’ve learned it takes her 3-5 weeks to learn a new routine.
My dad can’t see at all anymore and also likes being waited on so he was happy to hand off cooking duty. That said, he also seems to think he’s thirty years younger and keeps talking about cookbooks he wants to get. Anyway. We just make a point to offer snacks and coffee any time we walk past him, so several times a day. He’s mostly in the same spot so no worries about him eating his Tide pods (although those are out of reach). Maybe she’d be ok with it being offered to her before she can muddle together her tea? Sort of pre-empting the option to try to make her own snacks.
Yep! We locked the cabinets and moved everything out of sight. We’d put out a snack tray that my grandma could pick at, bagged goodies both sweet and salty, candy and drinks. It stopped about 90% of the food rummaging and we didn’t feel we were depriving her. We also had to shut the stove off at the breaker to prevent stove use too.
Do you have any ideas for the refrigerator and freezer? I thought about a long bicycle cable lock but it sounds like you have more experience?
Hopefully she does not put fire starter cubes in it, though. I guess that's part of not leaving stuff out that's dangerous. But, you know, there is bleach in the laundry. Detergent, too.
My dad took a huge bite out of a pink candle we had sitting on the dining room table. I guess he just got hungry and thought it looked like food. Dementia is nuts.
