Nothing you can really do, try to redirect as it’s happening (if he tries to toss somewhere other than trash).  But basically, it’s you who needs to adapt/lower expectations.  For example, since about January I’ve stopped trying to have my mother change clothes before bed.  Just let her sleep in the clothes for the day.  Not worth the aggravation at a certain point.  Lot of small things too, just have to go with the flow.  Does test your patience but after a while you stop caring and do what makes the day easiest and save the battles for the important stuff...changing out of soiled clothes, taking medications, going to bed, and so on
It could be worse - my mom hides it. I find stacks of used paper plates and juice bottles "for later", empty boxes in the attic, etc. It's really gross and I have to throw the stuff away when she's not looking or she will have a fit. I'm sorry but I don't think you can change this behavior.
Agree with other poster. Really dementia type progression does not get better and there likely is not the ability to learn new things. Perhaps adding a box or something other than a trash can would creat a new game of where to throw stuff?
Redirect if you notice, have garbage cans readily accessible in every room and visible, not tucked away and always keep a little garbage in there (a granola bar wrapper, a tissue or two, just a crumpled piece of colourful paper) so they dont look into this mystery bin and mistake it for anything other than garbage. My grandfather has a garbage can right beside his recliner in the living room or else all his tissues pile up on the side table. Same with beside his bed.

Dementia isn't a state in which one can really learn a new behaviour if they've been stuck with  the old behaviour since their younger years. All you can do is manipulate the environment to make it more likely they'll behave in a way you want. For you, this could mean more garbage cans sitting around and less disposable items that would need to find their way to that garbage can.
I feel your frustration and wish I had a helpful solution to offer. When it comes to dementia,once you solve one problem another arises and the exhausting cycle of frustration continues. I don't know if this would work but do you think if you placed smaller trash cans around your home he might would put the garbage in those again I'm sorry your dealing with this behaviour. Dementia is the shrinking brain disease and eventually all executive functions are lost. It gets worse. My heart goes out to you.
Does he write his own notes? I help out with my fiances dad and he remembers to look at notes if he is the one who wrote them. He'll write more than one for himself if he needs to. He used to overfill the coffee maker and get coffee everywhere, but he reads his own note and it hasn't happened in awhile.
I know this is a bit childish but I treat train my mother like a dog. I vary treats like extra time in the yard. Her favorite dinner. I'll watch her fave movie with her. 

She's starting with dementia but it helps. Ymmv. HUGS
Is the trash can in that same place he tends to leave the trash behind? That would help make it more obvious. 

I find it interesting that he remembers to do the dishes in the morning without prompting. So i think there’s something there
Keep up the gentle reminders and directing him to throw things away when you see them. If it was every day and now it’s every other, he could be making slow progress. I think the rule is that people with dementia cannot “learn” but they can form new random habits and I’ve noticed my grandmother picking up the repetitive things I have her do. What state are you in?
Same here.  I would get frustrated in the beginning, and then I learned that I needed to make changes to make life easier for both me and my mom, who has dementia.  Three years ago when she first moved in, she still selected her own clothes and dressed.  A few months later she wasn't able to do that - she would get her dirty clothes mixed with her clean clothes, so I started to pull out clothes for her to change into.  A few months later, she couldn't do that any longer and I dressed her.  It's more work for me on a daily basis, but I don't have the frustration of finding dirty clothes in the closet, and I'm making life less frustrating for both my mom and myself.  As she continues to change, I try to handle other things similarly.
Thank you! We've lowered our expectations quite a bit already and I do think this is a losing battle. I just don't want him to get into the habit (or stay in the habit) of having others always pick up after him. We used to think he could potentially live on his own if he gained the skills, bit that's gone out the door since he's been here all the time and we see he's incapable of doing what he'd need to. He can work, but the program ended because of COVID, so that's one thing we know he could do and we'll encourage him to when we get everything transferred here.
I found maggots in my moms room as she was hiding food. Now I go through it daily watching her hiding places
Oh my! I always think about how much worse it could be. It's annoying, sure, but he can wash himself, clothe himself, make breakfast and lunch. It could be much much worse (and I assume at some point it will get worse). The only thing he usually hides is messes he makes. He'll spill food on the floor and not tell anyone. And he makes up false memories, so if he's talking to someone, we have to "shadow" him to make sure he doesn't say something inappropriate or damaging.
Thank you! I think with some things, he just gets very confused. If he's emptied the milk, maybe he thinks we keep them. I've tried to see things from his perspective or how he thinks, but I realize it's nearly impossible. He's usually in his own world and we'll never really understand. He has learned some new things, like rinsing his hair out of the bathtub when he's done showering and some small other things, but some things he's done for 3 years now he just forgets. Or if he showers in the morning, he'll try to shower again at night because that's his routine. He also doesn't ever know his own age, so that's concerning and something we'll being up with his new Neurologist.
Thank you! And I agree. Though he hasn't been diagnosed with Dementia yet, he's showing more signs of it. It would make sense too because he had a stroke as a teen, coma, multiple brain surgeries. We've been successful at developing a habit of him rinsing out the bathtub and little things like that. And we have a note on the door to remind him to lock it. He's developed a mental slip where he doesn't close doors now (this is new and it happens with the bathroom usually), so I put a note on the sink saying "close door" and it hasn't happened since.
Also wanted to ask because of his age 37 seems young for dementia but not impossible,could be be autistic or schizophrenic. I had a friend who was similar in behavior. I'm glad he's going to a neurologist so you can get a definite answer on his cognitive decline.
Thank you! We do have a few trash can, but he seems to empty something, set it aside and just leave it. I can't figure out if it's because he thinks it should be reused or if he says to himself "I'll throw that away later". He thinks he can remember better than he does and makes up false memories and gets confused. I think it's called "confabulation". They'll make up memories and truly believe them. Like, he says he's been skydiving. No way on God's green earth has he done that. But he tells people he has because he has a need to impress people. I feel bad because I think he's always just been "the disabled guy", so he'll do or say whatever he thinks will impress people. Unfortunately, it sometimes ends up being inappropriate. He'll shake his pelvis around children, tell inappropriate jokes, etc. We have to monitor him wherever we go, even the store.

It's a daily struggle and I think I get the brunt of it because my fiance is gone for a whole day at a time for work while I'm working from home permanently now. Luckily, their aunt agreed to take him overnight one day.
He doesn't write anything down, but I had thought about that. He just doesn't look at notes. I have notes on my cabinets saying where everything is. He'll stand in the kitchen 5 minutes looking around. If we ask him what he's looking for, he'll say "nothing". He never asks for help. When his pill organizer runs out he just stands in front of me with it. Doesn't say a word. He has a bad habit of just going through my things if he can't find something. I've told him before that it's a violation of my privacy (though I have no privacy anymore) and he seems to have stopped that. But he would often go through my things to find a phone charger, he'll grab my phone thinking it's his, go through my personal items in the bathroom, etc. I'm not sure he'd remember to write anything down since he doesn't take time to read the notes for where everything is. It'd be nice ig he kept a diary of some sort.
Thank you! We have him do dishes for his "chores" and he gets $20/week for doing that and very minor yard work. We found out that he can't mow grass anymore because he can't see where to mow. I really want to ask his new Neurologist about all this so that we can have more realistic expectations about the future. And big hugs to you too. We're a rare breed apparently. A lot of people prefer nursing homes, group homes, etc. I don't blame them though!
I also wanted to say....I'm glad you mentioned the dog thing. I think of my fiance's brother as his child instead. It helps me to not have too high of expectations and it helps me understand why he insists on him not going to a group home vs living with us
He puts some trash on the floor in front of the trash can and others on the countertop in the kitchen (where the trash can is). He does dishes usually right after he eats. His routine is: wake up, use the bathroom (or wait if it's in use), eat breakfast, dishes, brush teeth, get dressed. I put a note in his bedroom that says he's supposed to do dishes and take out the trash. The dishes he does usually without being asked but he has to be asked with the trash.
That's a great way of thinking of it! Nee random habits vs new memories. With the empty milk jugs being left in front of, instead of in, the trash, it's every time he uses the last of it. With TP rolls, it's every time. I ended up putting a note on his cereal box that says to throw it inside the trash can when it's empty and, since then, he's forgotten once I think. Other things are random, like not throwing away an empty bag of chips. I think with those things, he says "I'll throw that out when I'm done eating" but never does. The trash can is inside the small kitchen and he knows where it is. One thing he has gotten used to is rinsing out the bathtub though. But he never cleans anything except the dishes unless he's asked to (things like picking up his clothes, wiping off rhe counter, bathroom, etc.) Oh! And we're in MI. He was born here but moved to another state around 19/20 and he's 37 now, though he thinks he's 33.
We've found that we have to accommodate him more than try to teach him things. He gets overwhelmed easily and doesn't follow instruction well. It's a wonder how he had a job just a couple years ago. He also gets his clothes mixed up and he'll wear the same outfit days in a row if no one says anything. We have to put things away/out of sight or he'll use/take them. He'll think money on the counter is his. He convinces himself that certain things are his when they're not.
Do you have any programs he could join? Like a community center that has day programs.

It might not help exactly, but it would give him something outside of the house and give your family a bit of a break.
Oh my! I couldn't handle that. But don't we always hear that? Then we handle it lol but that would be very difficult to deal with.
OK, that would be the crossing the line for me. lol Not sure if I could handle that.
I don't know if he's making them up - to him, that's the way it happened. My mom gets things mixed up all the time - old stories are told completely different, etc. I don't correct her, there is no point. It just upsets her. She knows her memory is going.

And she is VERY inappropriate. She is 88 and flirts with everyone including her grandson. It makes us all uncomfortable. If your BIL says something inappropriate to someone, just a quick apology and explanation is fine. You can't control him and you will make yourself crazy if you try. Most people will understand. Most people have had some experience of a family member with dementia.

Also, I relaxed my housekeeping standards a LOT when my elderly dad and mom moved in. I was exhausted and stressed trying to keep a perfect home. That helped too.
That's wonderful about the doors!!! Notes are magical tbh. We've got a note in the bathroom that says "if it's before 9:00am, go back to bed" because for a while (especially after being in hospital) he'd wander around at 3 in the morning.
Well, with his medical history, it wouldn't be out of the realm of a strong possibility. He had a stroke/coma as a teen and has had a dozen open brain surgeries. He has seizures if he doesn't take his meds.
This is so much for you and you absolutely bare the brunt of it since your home the most where he's at. It has to extremely hard to get things done and clean up after him and monitor him as well. I think it's great that you try to understand his thought process and you're concerned to want to help him. I definitely can relate to you having to keep a close eye on your BIL in the store,that's something I have to do with my uncle(dementia) since he tries to steal.I wish you the best in this challenging endeavor.
I'm so sorry you have that going on. I applaud you for doing this for him. It's tough enough for blood relatives but to do this for an almost in law. So generous.
He might never take the initiative to clean up after himself but if he does things when you ask, you might be able to adapt. Like a chore chart for kids, you can start a routine of prompting him to do specific things at different times. You can experiment with giving the same instruction around the same time/day if possible and see if eventually he picks up on it. The neurologist might be of some help if there’s a diagnosis to go by.
Unfortunately, he "lives" in another state (someone else is getting his check and he doesn't have an ID here). We're working on all that though. We have an appointment set up next month for a cash program though. It's between 1-3 hours for weekly activities and we'd have to pay out of pocket. They have a program that's 3 hours per week that teaches people social skills and I think it'd be good for him. In a social setting, he usually latches on to 1 person and talks to them nonstop. This can go on for hours because he doesn't understand social cues or that most people find that annoying.
Yes, that's what I've read about confabulation. To them, it happened. They 100% believe it. But their mom died 10 years ago and he says they went for a walk a few years ago. He also doesn't know his own age though. Also, their mom wouldn't go for walks because she had a bad leg and couldn't walk far. We also don't correct him on anything unless it's potentially damaging in some way.

Omg he flirts with everyone too lol cashier, random women in the store. He'll talk to anyone too and that's almost gotten him in trouble because he likes to tap or touch people and a lot of people don't like to be touched.

Right now, we have a tiny house. 3 bedrooms but the size of an apartment. It's pretty easy to clean and we'll have him vacuum his room and do dishes but that's it. When he does dishes, it'll take 30 minutes because he washes the same things several times.
Oh my! Mine will wake up at 7AM sharp and wander around a bit. If someone is in the bathroom when he gets up, he'll go back to his room and wait. If he doesn't have his routine available, he waits. It's bathroom, breakfast, TV, wash dishes (we pay him to do dishes), brush teeth, get dressed. Then at noon sharp, it's lunch. He can't male his own dinner, so he eats that when we do.
Oh wow I'm sorry to hear that he has been through all that.
I love sharing and comparing (and venting) on here. I've learned quite a bit even with those with different medical conditions but similar symptoms. It's becoming a little more bearable but we still need to figure out getting his Medicaid and SS in this state, so that'll be a beast too. It's really mainly annoyances like having to have him with me if I want to leave the house, making dinner very single night, cleaning up after him, etc.
I appreciate that! They've both been in my life for about 15 years, so that's why I usually just call him my brother-in-law. My fiance told me about this situation from day 1. If anything happened to their mom, he would take over care of his brother. I'm only with him so often because I work from home now. Otherwise, I'd have a little time away.
We've thought about having a chore chart. Someone at my fiance's job actually recommended it like he does for his kids. Because he's really just a very large kid in most ways. He doesn't consider other people ever. I think it just doesn't compute that, if someone has their hands full, you open the door for them. Or if omeone I doing yard work, you offer to help. If you're watching a movie with people, you don't answer and talk on your phone in the room. He's actually a nice person 99% of the time and he'll help if you ask him to, but he's also very selfish in many ways. Someone told me it's likely because he's constantly having to think about himself due to his disability and make sure he's ok.
You need to establish his new residency first. everything else will follow from that
The stroke and coma were due to a surgery he had. Normally, someone born with his condition would be able to live independently and have a normal life. But since the stroke, he's just had so many additional issues.
All those little annoyances add up and takes its toll on your well being which is why I hope you can find help. Its good that you come here to vent all your stress and I'm sure it helps other people like me who can relate to some of your ordeal. Like you,I too have learned so much from reading others experiences in caregiving and still have much more to learn. Never knew I was going to need to know all this but I'm kind of glad I do.
Don’t be too discouraged if a physical chore chart doesn’t help because that still requires him to self-monitor his progress. You could put it up but I’d still plan on verbally asking him when it’s time for him to do something on it.
Yeah, we need his SS card and birth certificate at least. He was born here but moved to another state 20 years ago. Now he's moving back here, so at least we can go wherever we need to get those things. I'm just not sure how we'll get him an ID because there are no bills we can put in his name here.
Yes! I had never heard of a Medicaid waiver, didn't know how SS works, what you need to get a state ID, etc. Little things do add up. Like when he opens and slams doors like he's the police lol I'm hoping we can buy a house soon that's much larger than what we rent because this small space and 1 bathroom isn't cutting it at all.
That's true. Every time we put a note up, he usually disregards it. He never knows the day, month, year, his age. We put a calendar up and he ignores it. I put up a lost of shower items and he still has to come out of the bathroom to gather more things. We started doing the notes so that it's more of an independent thing he's doing. But if he just disregards it....yeah. I think we just try so hard to have him be as independent as possible, but we really need his doctor to explain some things to us.
He has no photo ID at all? whatsoever? an old passport?

At the very least he needs to start receiving mail at that address. Letters addressed to him. You could put the electric bill in his name. idk why the utility bills are inherently more valid than internet bills, no one asks you for proof when you establish them
If it turns out he does have dementia Teepa Snow is an awesome source to gain knowledge from for caregivers. She's like the dementia whisperer.
He says that he has an ID from the state he lives in, but he can't be trusted to even have his insurance card, so I doubt it. We can't put any utilities I'm his name here because I rent this house and my landlord would very likely evict me. It's a weird situation. My fiance rents an apartment and wouldn't be able to either.
Thank you!! I'll look into that. I'm sure he'll develop it if he doesn't already have it. He's had too much happen to his brain. He also takes anti-epileptic meds that affect his memory.
