Learn to say no for non-essential shit
I’ve  (36F) had to ask my dad (77) to give me one day per week that we don’t do anything outside of the house. At first he would gripe on the “rest day” but he’s adjusting. He has been tinkering in the garage with some tools and stuff. He’s also low vision and has a brain tumor so he doesn’t drive. Just keep reminding him of “rest day” and things will settle down. You need your rest, too!
Yep, say something like “Gosh what a great idea. Let’s do that next week/month” and “I will put it on the calendar.”   

Ther is nothing that needs to be done today that cannot be done later.
I like to call them Minimum Days. On Minimum Day I basically do the bare essentials, prepare simple meals that require minimum effort, basic personal needs (toileting and grooming, but no full bath), activities are quiet and slow, no phone calls for appts, etc. It doesn’t solve every problem and emergencies crop up. I began planning for these days and tried to have one a week. Not perfect, but it helped.
Ask him let’s put a list together oh things you need.  Now, which of these things would be the best for you if they got done today?  The worst?  

And, Dad, which of those can You take care of?     You might be shocked at his answer.  Then talk about the two ends of the scale. And leave the middle for another day when you have more “spoons” of energy.

Next day or next week put another column in the list.  This is the +\- outcome. If task 1 on the list gets done, what is the best outcome? The worst?  (I.e what bad things happen if a b c don’t happen today in black and white will make prioritizing easier for you and him.  Good luck!
[deleted]
I already do… I’m looking for a less confrontational way to say no so I don’t get worn out by the aftermath.
I like this! Ty!
Ok. Worth a shot
Yeah… I’ve been planning them and then not getting them… stuff just keeps happening… so the boundaries around my “minimum day” eroded because I’d set them and then have to deal with his leg/foot stuff, so now he just ignores me when I set that boundary.
I’ll let you know… I ordered my dad a faucet bidet sprayer on Amazon so he can wash his own butt without getting bandages wet and they misdelivered it… I was so desperate for it I chased the Amazon truck like a stray dog hoping to catch it on the next stop… on a knee I am in PT for and when I am supposed to be taking it easy so I don’t overdo it and get quality sleep at night. Bam. Out the window and paying for it today. There’s SO MANY THINGS I NEED TO NOT DO… I can’t possibly not do them all.

Supposed to be resting today, but I went out and got curbside grocery pickup and did 2 loads of laundry.
I’m sorry
Ty!
