It’s possible, but this would be a typical progression for that amount of time, over six years, with dementia. I wouldn’t blame the isolation.
I think COVID definitely expediated the decline of senior citizens.  My parents' friends have had to move relatives from their homes into assisted living because they became so sedate that they were no longer physically able to live independently again.  I've been working from home overseas in Asia, which was locked down for over two years, and my OWN health and mobility has declined.

But from what you've presented, I'd say that you father's demise has more to do with his disease, whether diagnosed or not (my father isn't diagnosed, but we've all moved towards accommodating him as if he were diagnosed... and your father is much more progressed than mine).

So I'd say that while Covid hasn't helped the situation (unless he got it, which you didn't say.  We didn't catch it, so it's not a variable for us). the decline you are witnessing is due to other factors.

I'm sorry for what you're experiencing. I live 1/2 way around the world and came home to work from home for two months while we can do so in order to help my mother with my father. My parents will likely never get on an international flight again.  It's sad watching/hearing my mother make final statements like that.  Growing old sucks.  You have my sympathy.
Yes, that's what happened to my spouse.  The sudden, prolonged isolation accelerated their dementia.  

In my spouse's case, pre-pandemic, they were very social and outgoing and their primary symptom was short-term memory loss.  

I have no doubt the isolation and lack of familiar and enjoyable social stimulation caused a dramatic decline that landed them in memory care within a matter of months.

From googling "social isolation and dementia:"

"Social isolation is linked to lower brain volume in areas related to cognition and a higher risk of dementia, according to research published today in Neurology. The study found that social isolation was linked to a 26% increased risk of dementia, separately from risk factors like depression and loneliness."
Perhaps, but two years is also considerably long in dementia time.

Depending on his age, life expectancy from diagnosis hovers around ten years. It can be as high as 20 for patients who were young and without other health issues. Health problems that come with old age compound dementia and they snowball, especially when the routine is disrupted. For example if he breaks his hip, spends a week on bedrest, he may well have lost muscle memory forgotten how to walk when he tries again after that amount of time. 

Alzheimer’s is slower than FTD which is more genetic and hits patients young and fast.
120%. My mother (93) has had dementia for 20 years (!!!!) and lives across the country from my family; I have a brother who lives there, and I get out twice a year. Anyhow, she moved from a retirement community to a memory care facility during the pandemic. She  caught Covid in the former but rallied. We’ve moved her to a cheerier memory care facility but we’ve seen a marked decline. She used to like chatting a little and watching films on her tv, but now all she wants to do is stay in bed (the technical term is “bed-seeking”.) On the phone she’s monosyllabic, if she talks at all. Often she’ll tell the nurse she doesn’t want to talk to me. The isolation basically destroyed her. We never had a particularly cuddly relationship, but it’s awful to watch.
I agree. The pandemic did not do the elderly any favors, especially those with dementia, but eight years into a dementia does result in a natural progression towards the stage being described. 😞
I’m not disputing what happened to your spouse at all, but the study is about the risk of developing dementia, not progression after diagnosis.
For the record, my dad started showing signs of Dementia as far as 2014. He was 73 at the time. He has COPD and diabetes alongside it. At this rate, I think he has another five years.
Sorry to hear that. Best of luck to your family!
Thank you!
