[Here are the CDC guidelines](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/your-health/quarantine-isolation.html) including when those with COVID should be precautious up until Day 10.

Situations like this can be tricky. What “should” happen is that the ones with COVID should be making these hard decisions about if they can go be around him or not. Meaningful time with family is incredibly important though. What did his doctor advise you do/not do? Is he vaccinated and boosted?

From a hosting standpoint, I think I would reschedule the dinner for another week or two down the road if at all possible, but that wasn’t your question here and you may not have control over that. Have you shared your concern with the host/hostess? (I fully realize some people don’t care about COVID at all which would make this trickier.)
I wouldn’t
Nooooo!!  I had to make the same decision a few months ago and I'm gonna say fuck no!

Use common sense, if they believe they are symptom free then let them.  I'm sorry about the gigantor loss he's experiencing but cmon man!!  

At some point quality of life has to be that and that's that ya know.  Especially with dementia, physically healthy or not, just don't do it, please.  Help him help you and don't feed into the hype.
My Mum still has symptoms at day 10 and has been told it's possible she's still contagious by the Health Dept people who are doing welfare checks on her... You can also test positive on a rapid test for several weeks when you're no longer contagious. 

I personally would feel very nervous about it but probably only would encourage my Dad to go if the event was outdoors and I could trust people to have some distancing (no hugs, kisses etc). In the case of my Dad's family - this wouldn't happen so I'd probably keep him home and see if the party would Zoom call for 5 mins during the night.
Who cares.  Live life.
[deleted]
I’m sorry you have to make this decision. We are all so tired of this mess and the constant decision-making. Not that it matters what I think, but I think it is reasonable for you to choice either option. 

Perhaps consider things like venue (indoors/outdoors, large/small), if they have lingering symptoms, what their test results say (although people can test positive for a while depending on what tests), if they had all been vaccinated before testing positive, and generally what you think/feel is the better choice given this situation.
