I’m not a doctor, but I wouldn’t give up hope yet. Many older patients react that way to morphine, or even just being in a strange place. Talk to the nurses, doctors, social workers; they can tell you how common that is. It could very well be temporary. Hang in there. I know it’s scary, but stay strong.
My mother-in-law (in her mid-80’s)went into the hospital in March for heart failure. She began to hallucinate, talk VERY slowly, and she pretty much lost her short-term memory. We thought for sure it was dementia, but the hospital staff told us many(but not all) seniors who are hospitalized sometimes show the same symptoms due to reactions to new medications and being in an unfamiliar setting. For the three weeks she was in the hospital, it was very difficult to see her in this state. It lasted for about a month and a half altogether, and we found that once she was discharged and back at home, she very slowly returned to her normal self. I’m not a doctor or nurse, but I’m hoping what you’re family is experiencing might be due to some of the same reasons. All I can say is let your grandmother know you’re there for her and that you love her, and give it some time.
Hospital-induced dementia is a thing. It could be what is happening now. Drugs affect elderly people differently, too, so that could be part of it as well. Since she is in care, I’d assume they monitor her for these, but UTIs can also cause similar symptoms in elderly people
My dad had a severe case of delirium at the age of 85. He was hospitalised for 16 weeks and the doctor said "to be honest, elderly patents who spend this long in hospital rarely ever come out, so prepare yourself for that". He made a full recovery, has better cognition than ever and lives relatively independently and he's about to turn 87.
Several things can help with this.
Music is one. Is there some music she likes to listen to while awake? Play it softly in the background. The noises in a facility can be disorienting. 
Bed clothes is another. Unless your relative has terrible diarrhea or vomiting, having their usual blanket and pillow may help ground them a bit.
Pet therapy may help. If they own a pet that they love check to see if the pet can visit. Alternatively, see if pet therapy is available. 
Keep a routine. For instance, when you visit, try to visit at the same time. State the day, date, and time. Please remember many elderly don’t use clocks as much as daily events. So, when you visit, tell them it’s lunch time on Tuesday. 
Don’t say “Grandma, do you know who this is?” Instead clearly state who you are. “Grandma, it’s me , George Loveu”. 
Read the paper, a book, or talk about the family events in a calm voice. They may not answer, but the tone of voice is very helpful.
Stay over, if possible, one overnight. Listen to the noise and see if there is a way to decrease intrusive noises at night. 

I hope you grandmother does get better. It’s hard to watch/experience disorientation. Best wishes!
