Try empathizing. In other words, agree that it will be nice when she goes home, that it is hard to be away from home, etc. Maybe suggest an activity to do “while we’re here” or “until it’s time to go home”. Might help; might not
I'm not sure if leaving the house for a drive or short walk is possible. But sometimes just walking outside and going back into the house can help my grandma. She isn't as disconnected from her "home" (at least not yet). But the times she's insisted she needs to leave, I've gone with her and had her walk. Sometimes she is still upset, but it seems to dissipate after she goes back in and walks into her bedroom. Other times she just is mad at me and sits on the couch to pout, then I give her 10 mins or so and take her a sweet treat. She typically has forgotten by then and is pleasantly surprised. Unfortunately I think everyone responds differently so finding the best way to handle it can be tricky. 
https://dailycaring.com/when-someone-with-alzheimers-says-i-want-to-go-home-3-ways-to-respond/
stop trying to tell her she’s incorrect. She will feel like you are gaslighting her and eventually not trust you.

The reason your “home” IS your home, is because it innately feels comforting to you without explanation. The way you know where everything is, you can walk around at night without lights, because *you just know*. Without that inherent feeling of *familiarity*, it doesn’t feel like home. So if someone tried to tell you, “no. this really is your house, you just don’t recognize it” that is NOT comforting at all. It’s like being told to have “mandatory fun”. It doesn’t make sense to her or anyone. 

When my grandma did this, she also felt like everything was a cheap imitation of her house. That someone had snuck in, stolen all her nice kitchen backsplash and cupboard handles and replaced them with plastics. 

Eventually I said, “Would it make you feel better if we stopped trying to make this place feel like your old house?” To my surprise she said yes. I said, what if we do a remodel so it feels like a totally new place, not a cheap fake of your old house?” 

That actually worked! Then I pulled out paint color catalogs, home decor magazines etc and we actually had a fun time circling the things she liked and making a little wishlist for the remodel. Obviously since a remodel takes time to plan, it can’t happen immediately, it basically just perpetually bought us time and a future thing to focus on 

you could tell her you are on vacation. You booked a trip and the train back home is leaving in 4 days. Pull out some tourist brochures and look at activities, museums etc to flip through. Get some postcards and sit down with her to write a letter to her friends, far-away family from the tourist location. 

It doesn’t matter if you ever actually go to these things or not. It’s about pushing off the concern to a future date and finding a new thing to focus on without making her feel crazy
My LO inconsistently does this too. I found dozens of videos on YouTube that i have lined up right now to watch as soon as i get a chance.  "I want to go home."

Sorry that's not helpful now, but it's a place to start and where I'm headed next. 

In the meantime I would just ask her what she misses or likes about her "old" home.  What does she like about "this" home. 

I also like to distract mine with items she loves in the house. We might not know where we are, but we do know the whole beloved history of a specific chair or clock or whatever that she's had forever. "Remember this old thing?" (Yes or no doesn't matter, you can pivot with "yeah i guess that was a million years ago") 

Favorite music and movie clips are also good segways to get off of a troublesome topic.
Sometimes talk of wanting to go home can refer to somewhere the person lived many years ago, maybe a childhood home.

Sometimes it's more an expression of wanting to feel safe and loved, rather than in a specific place.

In this case though I'm just not sure either apply.

It's always good to keep primary doctor informed of any changes, and maybe considering anti-depressant/anti-anxiety med?
The other two commenters in this thread so far have great advice about using empathy and a little walk or car ride depending on their mobility.

The only thing I’d add would be that a distraction of some kind can get them away from the fixation. If there’s an activity they like/used to like, keeping that handy can be a good way to redirect. For example, I used to take care of a lady who liked folding laundry, so we kept a little basket of baby clothes for her to fold when she was anxious or fixated on something. Other things like this I’ve seen include flipping through catalogue magazines and putting together fake orders; or puzzles.
Also, Seroquel can help a lot
My wife did this for awhile, wanted to “go home”.  I would take her for rides, even drove her past our previous home an hour away(which she barely looked at), and each time we pulled in the driveway afterward I’d say “ alright, we’re HOME”. She was fairly nice about it, even though it may not have placated her. But I would never argue with her when she brought it up. I would ask her questions about who’s there, where it is, what she liked most about it. Then sometimes I’d say let’s get in the car and go. I have always felt strongly that her “home” she wants is a place and feeling in her heart that is comfortable to her, one that she knows from the past in normal times, not the chaos occupying her mind now.  And she wants it back badly.  It makes me sad.
My dad did this. Taking him out for a ride to "go home", going  for a brief ride somewhere, and pulling back into the driveway would often do the trick. It was like his brain would do a hard reset when he saw the outside of his house again, so that whatever error it was stuck on would clear. It didn't always work, but it worked often enough that we kept it up our sleeves.
I try to empathize the best I can, but it can be difficult because of how mixed up she actually is.  

If I say, "Yes, it will be nice when you can go back home, it won't be very long now".....she starts asking about me and other family members.  "Are you staying here?  Do you like this city?  Are you going to sell your house and move back with us?  What about your mom?  Is she moving back?"

And when it comes to suggesting actives.....she's always busy.  

Despite being 90 and even when in these moods, she's actually doing stuff most of the day.  She still makes the bed, dusts, vacuums, does laundry, cooks, waters her garden, etc.  Every couple hours she has to sit down and rest for a while, and watches TV, but I can't really break her out of her "routine."

She was a homemaker her entire life, to the best of her ability, despite being 90 and with mid stage dementia.  

If I suggest doing something, it's "No I have to do x and y still today and then start dinner."
She *can* go for walks, and use to like taking them.  But she won't anymore.  It's too bad, because it would definitely be good for her.  And we live by a very nice walking path down by the ocean.  

Unfortunately, my grandmother also doesn't forget after just a few minutes.  When she gets upset like this it always lasts 24-48 hours.
You're second paragraph is really well thought out and interesting.

It's the comfort and familiarity she is seeking, but she can only express that as "home".

When the short-term memory isn't working then any re-assurance can only have limited effect.
>Sometimes talk of wanting to go home can refer to somewhere the person lived many years ago, maybe a childhood home.

She is very specific though about wanting to go back to the house she is currently living in.  Not a different one.  

She brings up wanting to go back to the exact address she is in, and will describe the house when asked....and it's her house.  

>Sometimes it's more an expression of wanting to feel safe and loved, rather than in a specific place.

This could be more of the case.  She gets visits and phone calls daily from several family members.  However, she constantly brings up that nobody ever talks to her or comes to see her.  

>It's always good to keep primary doctor informed of any changes, and maybe considering anti-depressant/anti-anxiety med?

Her neurologist just upped her anti-depressant and anti-anxiety meds.  

He also just prescribed Risperidone in the evening because of how angry and agitated she's getting at night when sundowning.  She's starting that today.
See, I mentioned in another comment she actually still does a lot of her normal activities.  

My grandmother actually insists on still doing ALL of the laundry at 90.  She's up and down the basement stairs carrying a basket of laundry still (which I absolutely hate, but she won't stop).  

She vacuums, she dusts, she tends to her garden, she makes lunch and dinner.  She still goes grocery shopping.  


She does these things daily.  She basically keeps rather busy seven days a week.  


It's not really a help or distraction.
My mom was just prescribed this. Shes been on it a week so far and no changes. I know it might take longer to work but I'm really praying it does, for her sake. This is really killing my whole family
It sounds like you are doing everything you can to try to help or mitigate it. But even if nothing works and she still gets upset, remember that you've tried. Unfortunately we can do everything "right" and still not see results or even feel like we are failing them. Sometimes you just can't make them happy. And that's not a reflection on you or the rest of the family.
You could also look at Capgras Delusion. I once supported a guy who explained that his house had been replaced with an exact copy. He couldn't understand why or how they'd done it, but obviously he wasn't happy about it.

Not saying this is what's happening with your grandmother, but just another dementia can play with people's head.
If she can't remember family and friends phoning and visiting though I'd more likely guess that she wants to go back to a time when things made more sense, and when all her family were around rather than a place.
