I say this with the the utmost kindness:  Is her quality of life good enough to take extreme measures to get fluid into her, or would that extend her misery?  Would the actual treatment cause her great distress, see that it will be a constant thing from now on?  

These are hard questions to ask and I bring them up because my mom created her health directive when she started her dementia jouney and absolutely and completely made it very clear that if she was in such a situation as your grandmother, we were to NOT take any medical measures to extend her life in any way if she had poor quality of life left.
The other commenter said it better. Most ill elderly people (and animals) do cease eating and drinking as they approach death. It’s perfectly natural. It is highly unlikely that your LO is suffering terribly as this is her body’s way of shutting down. I wish you all a peaceful good-bye if it is that time.
Do you have hospice care? We had morphine to ease my mother’s pain. She was unconscious, and didn’t eat or drink for the last 6 days of her life. These other posts are spot on, our goal was to give her the best quality of life, not length. We had several loved ones around her in those final days. I was reading the paper just so she could hear my voice, and final night I whispered in her ear “I love you, you were a great mother”, she passed at 3AM that night. From this I learned dying is messy.
I agree with saxtonferris,  is this the way she would want to live?  If you could go back in time and ask her,  what would she say to do when it came down to this?  I know my health care directive says to let me go when I get to the point she is.  Does she have quality of life?  Will her situation change enough to give that to her?   I am 66 and hope to have many years to go but I would never want to be kept alive when I can't participate with my life like I used to.  (edited to add more comments)
It sounds like the ol girl is slowing down, it's a process. Lots of love, and hope you can enjoy some quiet time w her.
Your grandmother is dying. I work with dementia patients and from your description our facility would not force drink, food or meds. 

Dying is natural. It is torture living with worsening LBD, and as you say, even if you tried to force her back with an IV and other meds, she will not really get better, and it will keep happening. Most doctors would consider this non-ethical.
Virtual hugs.  [https://pmabraham.medium.com/is-my-loved-one-starving-or-being-dehydrated-to-death-5aecb37090b0](https://pmabraham.medium.com/is-my-loved-one-starving-or-being-dehydrated-to-death-5aecb37090b0) might be an informative read.  If she's that close to dying, giving IV fluids can put stress on her heart and cause fluid overload.
To offer another perspective from a different situation that will ultimately lead to similar questions. 

My dad has Leukaemia and Dementia, his Leukaemia treatment is 1 pint of blood per week, unfortunately his treatment started to cause issues with his dementia over 5 years ago and we are very aware that we will have to reduce his treatment in the relatively near future which will ultimately lead to my dads death. We have accepted this reality because we have absolutely no choice. I can understand many peoples perspective of push treatment but dementia is by definition a terminal diagnosis and no treatment can change that.
My mom was in a similar situation the week before Thanksgiving of 2019, she'd maybe nibble a couple of bites of food a day, if she drank a couple of ounces of anything it was a gift. I was told by a nurse who'd been working in the memory care unit for years that when they get like that, they go fast, that she'd maybe have a week or two. Mom continued to not only survive, other than massive weight loss, she still foot-pedaled her chair down the hallway to the activities area, she still sassed and argued with anything my siblings or I said, and made it past Christmas and New Year. She died on January 4th and was active until about half an hour beforehand.

A friend of mine lost her mom just a few months before my mom died and she and her dad chose differently for her. When she stopped eating, they panicked because they couldn't imagine a world without her and had them put in a feeding tube. Her mom had dementia and the second she was able she'd pull the tube. That escalated to putting her in restraints to keep her from pulling the tube out. They finally realized that what they were doing was completely against what she would've wanted and let her go, but over 2 years later my friend still tells me she wishes she'd stopped her dad from allowing it.
Her doctors are worried that going to the hospital will accelerate her disease. !!  What? Not eating and drinking will also accelerate her disease. Sounds like the doctors are choosing to not have a very difficult conversation with you.

Maybe it's time for hospice care. 

My sympathies go out to you and your family. I lost my Mom to Lewy Body Dementia in Dec 2016.
I appreciate this comment so much. These are the hard questions… prolonging physical life is not always the answer as hard as that pill is to swallow. It’s helpful to understand that someone like your mom made that directive when she was lucid.

Thank you for sharing and I’m sorry we can relate.
Thank you for your kindness
Thank you for sharing. She hasn’t been eating or drinking much for months so I’m worried that it is going to go from the slow decline to a rapid one. It’s heartbreaking but it’s the reality.
Thank you for your advice!
Thank you very much for your comment
Thank you for sharing, I’m so sorry for you and your family’s pain. It is such a weird situation to have to balance the physical with the mental.
Wow, just wow. I’m so sorry for your loss. Thank you for this, it really helps me understand the polar opposite approaches. There is clearly a more humane choice, I thank you for sharing something so close to you to help my family.
They’re worried that the mental penalties will override the physical aid, especially because the physical aid would be short lived. A bandaid on a bullet wound kind of situation.
In regards to my mom, It’s so hard to change our mindset from, “omg!  I need to do everything I can to correct this.” To: “what can I do to make sure she is comfortable. Because she’s not going to get better.”
I was lucky to speak with a very frank ER doc whose mom had dementia like my mom. It was good to see the other mindset so I wasn’t making her have unnecessary tests that were not going to improve her life.
It’s really important to make these wishes known when you’re of sound mind. 

Regardless of age, any one of us can get hit by a truck and go into a coma we won’t wake up, so another person needs to be appointed to make those decisions for us, and it’s helpful to them to have advanced directive for situations like your grandma
Ask her doctor for a referral to hospice.  It's a program that focuses on treating pain, not prolonging their life, and helping them die peacefully.    There are social workers and bereavement counselors that can help your family through the transition.
Thank you, we were warned that this would potentially be an outcome to the situation so we have had time to understand and accept. 

Something that has helped is remembering my dad before all of this started and knowing that he wouldn't want to live this life. I hope you and your family are able to find peace in this hard time.
Great point of view, thank you
Thank you so much
