>BUT that doesn't take away the past 40+ years of being a hypochondriac...

And this is not likely to change any time soon.  As a nurse, we see this all the time.  People come into the ER who are known on a first name basis.  They are known as Frequent Flyers.

If the patient is unable or unwilling to seek help, then you need to do so, for yourself.  Contact [NAMI](https://www.nami.org/Support-Education) for a local support group.  Until then, do not give into the patient's need for attention.  This is essentially the purpose of hypochondria.
I'm sorry I don't have answers, but I read your vent and offer my sympathy. I am glad that you are getting help. Hang in there, this will not last forever. One day, it will end. It's tough looking after an aged parent with disability, especially when you have your own little ones to look after.

It sounds like your dad might need to go to an aged care facility that can handle his disability/other needs eventually... Never an ideal situation, but at least you'll know he's being fed, clothed, cleaned and kept safe...

I can relate a bit as I'm currently caregiver to my mum (66) who had a stroke recently and her unreasonable paranoia + hypochondria are driving me crazy sometimes.

Anyway, my best wishes to you and your family.
Ughhhh yes the need for attention is real. Unfortunately my mom indulged that one for far too long when she was alive.

I am trying to get help. The social worker is the bridge to mental health services here. I'm Canadian so going through my provincial seniors' care.
Thanks. I am probably going to be okay with putting him in long term care when the time comes. I don't know how much capacity for empathy I have left.
That is completely understandable.

This may help: A tip I read somewhere for caregivers is that it helps to clearly know when you have reached the limit of your ability to provide care and your parent will need to be moved to professional long-term care. For example, when the parent with dementia starts to show violent behaviour or when they tick specific boxes for 'high maintenance' (e.g. cannot get out of bed, cannot walk, cannot dress themselves, needs help for all meals, etc.). Or it may be based on your own limits too, like if you reach the point of being forced to choose between helping your children with meals or helping your father with his meals.

Good luck.
That is good advice.

No walking would be extremely difficult for me to handle. That would be a re-evaluation for sure. 

My kids are teenage though - if I have to help them with meals that's a serious situation indeed 😁 However I do need to be present to show up at school concerts and drive to Scout camp etc. I don't mind if my kids make some sacrifices but they can't be getting pushed aside or ignored.
