Look up the GPS smart sole. It’s an insert you can put in his shoes to track him and he won’t even know it’s there.
Just do it
It took a long time until the doctor saw what I did.   At some point though,  you'll find you will need that official diagnosis.
Have your kid decorate it and give it as a present
Ask your doctor about medication for cognition. I was amazed at the improvement we got from my dad when we put him on Aricept. His general confusion got dramatically less.
First, yes, the Air Tag or whatever works to be able to find him, if need be. Do that now before something happens. 

I lived that denial here with my wife for 5 years. Best advice I got here was that for them, it’s no longer active denial,  it now a total inability to see and recognize the problems. 

The other advice that I got here and elsewhere, professionals or not, was that nothing would happen unfurl there was a crisis, and we finally had a crisis 3+ months ago. My wife also has vascular dementia, but if course that diagnosis only happened after she was in the hospital. 

Now she’s in a Memory Care Community (third one since April, but that’s another, longer, story) and doing reasonably well. 

Just don’t ask her how she thinks she’s doing…
I got my mom an Apple Watch with cellular. She doesn't go far on her dog walks, but it's still peace of mind. You can easily track it from your phone.

AirTags are unreliable since they rely on someone else being nearby with an Apple device.
If he takes his phone with him, just track him with Find  Friends APP. Then you will know where he is at all times. I keep track of my husband in that way.
second this. they'll get used to it. 

if you go the AirTag route, they come in 4-packs. everyone in the family gets one so he's not singled out.
I believe he has vascular dementia which is less treatable. (I’m a nurse) we are still waiting on an official medical diagnosis - so always hope as a mixed dementia picture would be good news for us. It’s just frustrating that he performs reasonably well in some of her cognitive tests ( he was an engineer so pretty good at the long term mathematical ones) when he can turn round and ask about his brother - forgetting he died last year.
I have thought about this. It’s more the morals I’m concerned about. I know my intentions are honourable - perhaps it’s just I feel I’m crossing a line and now I’m feeling like the parent 🤷🏼‍♀️
Unfortunately vascular dementia doesn’t respond to Aricept.
Yep - this is my Dad.  He can tell you who's president, other current events.  But when they asked him the last time he was hospitalized, he said when he broke his arm - when he was 28!
My dad could remember things from when he dated and married my mother, but sometimes he would ask where she was (died in 2013). We just told him she was at work
Our dad had dementia and we used to tease him about us being the parent. As the disease progressed, he pretty much went along with anything we asked of him. We pretty much learned to live in "his world". We placed a padlock on the steps to upstairs bedroom and to the basement. He tried to get them off with a butter knife but eventually he quit trying. We took his car keys and made a dummy set, he wanted money, so we gave him five one-dollar bills. When we took him out to the store, he would always pull out the wallet to pay and we would take a dollar from him

Be kind to yourself, you are doing what you think is needed to keep him safe. 

Dementia sucks
“Feeling like the parent” comes with the territory of dementia
Safety is more important than worrying about ethics. At some point the line will blur so much that you'll not even think about it. If he goes out and doesn't return when he's expected, is knowing you honored his privacy really more important than making sure you locate him and get him back home? 

It's something that'll come up over and over. Later, when he's further along, when he's asking painful questions about relatives who've died and he's wanting you to call them for him, are you going to be one of those who drags him through grieving each time by telling the truth or come up with a compassionate, if less than truthful answer? It's something all of us have gone through to some extent with our loved ones. Putting your own feelings aside and doing what's best for your loved one is hard, but necessary.
You have to treat them like a child (I treat my child like an adult with limited responsibilities: with respect and don't lie to them). You don't lie. You have your kid decorate it for grandpa and have said kid give it to grandpa and tell then how much they love them. It's not a lie the kid decorated it for him and the lid loves it. No lie no trick and you have some relief because even my 9yo can make it home but my mother with dementia sometimes can't. This also requires he holds onto his keys which may fail at some point
You gotta do what you gotta do. Add details that are the truth and focus on those. 

An apple watch may even be a good idea. The newer ones have a fall detector. And track heart rate and exercise goals. He can ask it for the time and date and other random questions. mainly you can show him the fun parts.
Oh I’m sorry.
I respectfully disagree about lying, it's well recognized that one should play along with their delusions in order to provide security and protection. Not calling you out, just saying, oh dear, sometimes you have to lie to them and it's not a bad thing, their brains are lying to them!
I think this is something that will change as my mother becomes more severe. For now I don't lie and try to give a much autonomy as possible. In a few months I'll agree with you (probably). We did lie to my grandma in the last few years but it's all I could do to get her to eat or not waste on herself.
