I did hospice for my dad. You sound like you're being very reasonable about the ability of an organization to respond at all hours of day or night. If you're not already doing so, I would add to any voicemail an explicit request for followup, so they know your expectations. 

It does seem odd that no followup is automatically forthcoming, though, and no general "how's it going" communication from them. After all, the point of hospice is to supply you with a support network handling logistics, so you can be freed up for the minute-by-minute details of caring. 

Depending on time constraints, yes, I would consider another outfit. Personally, I deliberately sought out a not-for-profit hospice organization. There are pro's and con's to either, of course, but "profit" just stuck in my craw. I would wonder if staff at your current organization is overbooked and understaffed for the sake of economizing (which could occur in either for- or non-profit). 

Godspeed.
I would absolutely switch.  Otherwise, when he reaches the active stages of dying and you need assistance with his pain meds after hours, you will be on your own.  I don't know how much of a hassle it is to switch, but I've heard stories of how hard it is to manage a loved one's death when hospice doesn't show up when called.  That seems harder to me than the hassle of switching.
We picked our hospice provider because we could pick our nurse, a family friend. She was exceptional and got my dad to take a few drops of juice before he died 2 days later. The provider itself was phenomenal! They called back no matter what time of day or night. They listened to our questions and gave us answers we could understand. They explained every stage of the dying process. The nurse came at 4 am when I called to exam him and told us to call the family. 

Find a different service

Dementia sucks
Hospice provider should be available 24 x 7. As a hospice registered nurse case manager I do tell my patients and families that when they do use on call the main thing that we ask for is patience because the nurse or nurses on call maybe with other patients and families and could easily be a 2 Hour Dr. away.
Have you spoken to the director/manager of the service? Tell them you'll be changing providers if this isn't resolved immediately.
Absolutely the overnight nurse should at least be calling you back. Every time i needed to call the hospice nurse and had a lengthy conversation in the night, they called back 7am before leaving to ask how is the current situation, and then tell me what time they’re sending a nurse during that same business day.
