Yes
Does it indicate anything about particular form of dementia, or stage? I've found reference this being a characteristic of Parkinson's, so I guess I'm wondering if this goes along with the presumed Lewy Body dementia?
Both Parkinson’s dementia and LBD patients can experience flat affect (no facial expressions) and muscle rigidity. People bedridden can also experience regular neck muscle stiffness and may not be able to articulate that they need help with positioning. FTD patients have the flat affect early in the disease and Alzheimer’s toward them end. To further confuse you, the older a person is, the more the likelihood of more than one kind of dementia, called mixed dementia. Most kinds of dementia cannot be positively identified until after death via autopsy, although Alzheimer’s and FTD seem to be the easiest to id. So, there really no way to know for sure. I’m so sorry.
It goes with parkinson's disease as well. Has he had a trial of levodopa? It may help him move and express more.
Aaaaand, today the rigid features are gone and he’s full of piss and vinegar and demanding that I give him his liberty to go back to his house. This shit comes and goes day by day and it’s killing me.
Wondering if you know if anything is known about what can trigger a LBD patient to flip from between "up" cognitive state and "down" cognitive state? Wondering if external stimuli are thought to play a significant role, or if it's just invisible and unknowable brain chemistry?
Worse disease ever.
That daily exasperation is the hardest part. I understand!
Everything I’ve read indicates it’s all physical brain malfunction add degeneration. I don’t believe there’s anything that can change the progression or path of the disease. Of course there are ways to mitigate negative emotions at the beginning, because some of those are normal reactions, but that won’t last.
🥺😢
Not just exasperation ... when his cognition is "up" and he's haranguing me for keeping him from home, I feel like I'm betraying him. And it's even gotten to the point that I feel relieved when his cognition is "down" ... which also feels like a betrayal!
Oh yeah, I'm not holding out hope for changing the progression. I'm just wondering about the fact that my dad has days when his cognition is really "up" and days when it is really "down" and I'm wondering what triggers the brain to flip modes.
Is he in a facility now or living with you?
My guess is that as parts of their brain stop working correctly, on days that they are their best self, other pathways in the brain can be used to circumvent the problem areas. On days and times where they are tired, sick, confused, whatever, that’s just too much for their brains. Kind of like a normal brain has more trouble after a sleepless night. And we all have those times where we just mentally hit a wall from doing too much in a day and just wouldn’t want to struggle with a complicated task at that moment. Imagine you go on a work trip, come home on a red eye, go straight to work, have bad traffic on the way home, and when you finally get there, your spouse asks you to put together that piece of furniture from IKEA that has 36 parts. I imagine that brains with dementia have times where they just can’t cope anymore too.
memory care assisted living facility
You’re lucky that he can afford it. This is the best possible place for him right now. Don’t feel guilty no matter what he says. If you think he’s hard to deal with, imagine putting up with him 24/7 because you’ll have to take him in since he can’t live independently anymore.

My husband’s grandpa passed a few years ago but his last few years were really tough. He was in and out of nursing homes bc he always managed to sneak out and walk home, only to be found fallen into a ditch by the side of the road somehow with a fractured hip. An aunt finally had to sell his house and he was so angry. But he couldn’t take care of himself.
