Can you call her Dr and explain your concerns?  They will reach out to her to make an appointment. 

Another option is to call Adult Social Services. They can send a caseworker to evaluate her and determine what supports they can provide. 

Unfortunately you may have to wait until she deteriorates more in order to get her help. It’s hard when they are uncooperative.
Welcome to the club. I'm waiting for him to fall which he will since he refuses to use a walker which he needs and instead stumbles around with a cane. He's going to end up in the hospital seriously injured sooner or later. Then there won't be a choice.
My heart goes out to anyone that has a family member with dementia that is struggling to get them help. We were blessed, no fighting, not aggressive, he just went along with whatever we asked. He had given me power of attorney back in 2010 and I was already on his checking account so that transition was seamless. 

Dementia sucks
I remotely take care of my MIL's brother with dementia several states away in a MCF. So  I do the managing but not the hands on stuff. My husband had to go to Uncle's state and have him moved from a hospital to MC as the hospital would not release him to live in his own apt alone.

MIL holds the POA but is in cancer treatment so I deal with the MCF, Medicare, pharmacy, insurance, banking, expenses, ordering toiletries and supplies.

Perhaps a call to Adult Protective Service in her area may be of assistance in getting her placed. If you or sister do not have a POA you may have to file with the courts for Guardianship over Mother and place her in a facility.
Thank you for the advices! She refuses the caseworker my sister sent last year… that is why my mother dont want to talk to her anymore.

I dont know any of her health info, so i dont know how to contact her Dr unfortunatly.

Guess my next option is to wait… it is hard yes! But thank you!
It is sad… oh I wish I could do something for her before she hurts herself. My fear is the oven, she uses it and sometimes forget that it is still on!
It sucks yeah. At least no fighting make things a little easier I suppose.
