Any questions concerning meds are better answered by a pharmacist. They will have much more knowledge on side effects and expectations.
Yes. My dad had Lewy Body with bad hallucinations/delusions. Seroquel didn't work so we moved on to Nuplazid (brand name for pimavanserin). That worked for a time - it really reduced the psychotic symptoms and resulting behavior. I want to say it took about eight months for the dementia to progress to the point where even that stopped working, but better eight months of better quality of life for all involved than zero.
Never heard of it but there’s new drugs coming on the market on a regular basis. I checked it in Epocrates And I would advise you to check the black box warning. I cannot copy and paste from the app but it expressed extreme Concern for giving this medication to anyone with dementia or psychosis.
Unless your father is diagnosed with Parkinson's disease, I doubt that insurance would cover Nuplazid if you are in the US.  It was recently denied for dementia use in the US.

And since he's taking Risperdal  I'm going to hope that he does not have Parkinson's disease as that would be a terrible combination.

Have you tried Seroquel? This is probably the most safe and effective antipsychotic for people with dementia.
How is your dad now?
I saw similar black box warning for Seroquel(Quietipine) and Risperidone as well. Looks like all of them are associated with various side effects. I really dont know what to do.
Sadly/not sadly, he passed away in February. But he was ok for about eight-ten months, until late 2020, when the delusions and aggression came back. They came back gradually, so it's hard to pinpoint an exact time. Progression from there was into increasing delusions and violence, then gradually becoming less and less coherent until he was more or less calm for the last six or so months. (Very much not there,ie Increasingly non verbal, incontinent, mobile but appeared mostly unaware of his surroundings.) I think the delusions were there almost until the end, in some form, because he'd often been mumbling in a way that suggested he thought he was talking to another person who wasn't actually there. But at least he wasn't attacking people anymore. Hope that helps give you an idea of timeline and progression in his case.

Also, don't totally freak out. Violence isn't a given. We were just really unlucky.
Do you have a definitive diagnosis for what type of dementia your loved one has? There are certain types of dementia that are more prone to hallucinations and psychosis such as Lewy body dementia where one has to be extremely careful for which medication’s that are used to help treat the symptoms.
I am really sorry for what you have to confront. May I ask when he was diagnosed?
There is no such tests available in my country to diagnose type of Dementia. But the doctor I have been consulting said it is Mixed dementia. Hallucinations are very prominent and frequent with my dad. I feel so helpless being the only caregiver. I am a type one diabetic as well.
I appreciate the sympathies. He was diagnosed in 2017, though I'd say there were signs at least a couple of years prior. It was almost exactly five years from diagnosis to death. 

If it helps, he wasn't actually that bad until 2019 - confused, anxious, and losing the ability to do stuff, but still "him" and reasonably calm, compliant, and reality-oriented. The onset of delusions and hallucinations in 2019 was really the tipping point.
Acknowledged. I’m just sharing my opinion but the way I look at it is fathers life there’s hope in all we can ask if anyone is to do their best. You’re doing your best. As part of doing a basket wouldn’t hurt to try what the doctor ordered just clarifying with the doctor is there any thing specific you should be monitoring in case of adverse reactions to know if you should stop giving him the medication. Virtual hugs.
In our case diagnosis started with Hallucinations. We left home in the midnight thinking I was calling him and thats how it all started. He had some symptoms like behavioral changes and minor memory decline from last year but we failed to address those properly. Lets see where this journey takes us finally.
Damn. I'm sorry it started off with such a bang for y'all. I hope the pimavanserin brings you all some relief.

I do know that, particularly in Lewy Body (don't know if that's what you're dealing with or not), they tend to be highly sensitive to even atypical anti-psychotics and can even experience worse symptoms with some drugs. It's very individual, but my dad tried Seroquel and actually got WORSE. So it may be that your dad will get better after the switch. 

I will say that, to me, while these meds all come with warnings, in our case and after a certain point the risks of not using them outweighed the risks of using them. My dad's behavior put himself and us in danger on a regular basis, and his delusions caused him such extreme emotional distress that we had to do something, and for a while, this was the only thing that worked.
My dad also had bad side effects with Seroquel. He almost gone crazy. This journey is very tough.
