I would ask her what she needs right now and if you can't provide it, offer to help her locate the help she needs. I would also let her know that you are taking appropriate measures to ensure he doesn't harm anyone else.
Firstly, I am so sorry that you guys, all of you, are going through this.

I used to work in aged care and was strangled to the point of blacking out by a resident.

I can tell you what not to do because this is what happened to me.

Do not try and pretend like it didn't happen.

Do not tell her it's her fault and people don't do that for no reason so what did she do to cause it?

Do not ignore her when she reaches out and says she is not okay and is struggling.

Do not laugh at her and say "he's an old man, it's not like he could hurt you. Why didn't you fight back?"

Arguably the most important. Do not force her to come back to work the next day. Let her come back if (and when) she is ready.

I had to return to work two days later and had a dozen panic attacks within two hours and couldn't handle it. My boss was awful and I now have PTSD, more related to how he situation was handled than the actual strangulation. 

What you should do is reach out to her. Apologise for what she has been through, DO NOT SAY ANYTHING ABOUT HOW YOUR GRANDFATHER DIDNT MEAN IT. By saying that you are taking away from what she has been through. 

Let her know that you are there for her and want to help her. Ask her what she wants or needs. Don't make assumptions.

The resident who strangled me had a severe neurological condition and his family were devastated by what happened. They came in and saw me at work and gave me flowers, chocolates and his daughter burst into tears when she saw the bruises on my neck and just broke down.

They were hurting the same, if not more than me however I was only strangled, not sexually assaulted so these are very different situations.

However there are some shared takeaways and that is to acknowledge what has happened, offer her support by asking her what she wants and do not talk about your grandfather to her unless she brings him up. I have no idea what degree of sexual trauma she has sustained and for the most part it is irrelevant, but everyone deals with things differently and if she wants to talk about it let her do it at her pace.
I like that you are treating her to therapy. I truly hope, as intense as that descibed, she can make peace knowing it was a very scary symptom of his disease, and she did nothing to deserve any of it. 

How horrific. I don't even want to imagine how to handle that, but I admire that giving compassion to her is how you are handling it so far. 

As for what you can do next.. Give her paid leave while she recovers. Allow her to decide if she wants to work with you and grandpa again. 

As for what you do next for grandpa.. I honestly don't know , but wish you the very best.
This probably varies heavily by country, but where I'm from you basically don't have any duty to help her heal or overcome the behavior of a dementia patient. If she needs resources like that, she should be going through her employer.
I think this is the way to go. Sexual assault of any kind involves the loss of control; giving her back as much control as possible is one way to help her heal, so asking her what she needs and how you can help are really good ideas. 

Also, make clear to her that you understand what happened was traumatic for her, and that you do not want to make excuses, because I think a lot of people would be tempted to downplay this because "he didn't mean it" or "he couldn't help it." That doesn't make it any less traumatic for her. Obviously you're not doing that, but what I'm saying is you need to absolutely spell it out for her, because honestly, I do not think your reaction is the norm, unfortunately.  

When you say that you are taking steps to make sure this doesn't happen again, tell her that if she has any thoughts on the matter you would love to hear them, but don't pressure her to weigh in unless she wants to. 

To be honest, one of the best things you can do is just tell her "I absolutely believe you, I am on your side, I am so sorry that this happened, and if there is anything I can do, I will do it." 

If it matters, my answer draws a lot on my own experience as a sexual assault survivor, and my volunteer work in that area.
It doesn't sound like OP is talking about what their "duty" is, or what they're legally required to do, but rather what the decent, ethical thing to do would be when your loved one sexually assaults someone.  

I mean, I don't know about OP, but I have a good relationship with my mom's caretakers. We're not friends, but we're still pretty close. If something like this happened to them, even if their employer was paying for all sorts of counseling and so forth, I would *still* be wanting to reach out to them and try, as much as it is possible, to make things right. (And you can't, but, you know - make them right*er*.)
