I care for my Grandma. After years of caring for her, almost everything she does aggravates me. She "sings" in the car and it isn't even to the music or the right sounds. Sometimes it is just incessant noises. When it's just you and one person who isn't even fully "with it", it is very draining. Taking time for yourself is needed. She is getting care and that's what is important. Honestly we can't do everything perfectly for our loved ones. And it's easy to sit back after and go crazy with the "should have" and "what if" scenarios. But at this point we are all doing our best. You can love someone and not like them all the time. That's where I am. I love my Grandma and I dislike so much of what she does. I hope you get some rest and are able to let go of the guilt. It does neither of you any good. You love her, she knows it, and that's all that matters.
I feel you on this. My mom was hospitalized twice in one day and ended up inpatient after the 2nd admission. They caught a UTI and think that could have exacerbated things. After her hospitalization, she was discharged to memory care since my father is also showing signs of dementia. I find myself getting frustrated having to have the same conversation over and over, but I think that may just be manifestation of my grieving for the person she used to be. But mostly I just focus on holding onto each and every moment she feels safe and loved by me.
This sounds absolutely par for the course for caregivers. I'd encourage you to reach out to your local Alzheimer's Association (they are inclusive of all dementias, but at least in my area "Alzheimer's" is the key word) and see if they have caregiver support groups. I think being able to talk to people who are going through something very, very similar will help you realize that you are not being a bad person, you are not being impatient, you are not being awful, you are being *a normal person suddenly saddled with caregiving.* 

If your local area doesn't have any support group, there are a bunch of groups online, so look around for those. 

You are absolutely not alone, and the way you are feeling? It's absolutely understandable and normal.
Totally understand what you’re feeling. My dad was diagnosed a month or so ago and trying to manage and deal with it all is too much sometimes. I feel guilty that I’m not with him everyday but I also get so frustrated when I am with him. He is super paranoid and gets fixated on the smallest things. Thinks people are taking his money, gets sketched out by spam callers, etc… i feel like such a shitty person for getting frustrated. I’m normally pretty cool about not taking it out on him but I still feel guilty with how annoyed I get. 

Give yourself some grace. Navigating all of this is challenging. Hang in there.
This is my mother to a tee. I’m better today. I think I was just being hard on myself last night. Appreciate everyone’s comments.
