Yes, therapy is a waste of time for her. When she says this, change the subject and get her involved in something else. Ask her a question, ask for her assistance, etc. rather than letting her ruminate on this.  Therapy might be helpful for you so you are not so negatively affected by what your Mom says, or for coping with the fact that your Mom has a dreadful terminal disease. "Jut let me me die" is a natural feeling and comment. Who wants to become dependent on their loved ones and slowly waste away from dementia, losing all dignity, independence, and body and brain functions? Who wouldn't want to die before that happens?
I always just try to soothe them and redirect the conversation to something else.  Since my MIL is religious I'll sometimes tell her that she is in God's hands and that seems to satisfy her.
Yeah it hurt me the first time my mom said this, she says it often now. To be honest I'm too tired for it to affect me any more. I'll say things like we're all going to die at some point, or I say you may want to wait until Monday since <insert favourite tv program> is on tomorrow.

Therapy won't help here unfortunately, she won't remember anything. You can try distracting her with something instead.
dealing with my own set of struggles, but not this. It breaks my heart. Stay strong and know that you're presence and support is an amazing service for your loved one.
There is something called validation therapy that is designed to be used with people who have dementia.
I don’t know how to get over this either. My dad was writhing in his hospital bed asking my mom “why won’t she leave me alone?!” and crying out that he was dying and “I’m dead! I’m dead!”  That was 8 months ago and hearing him cry out like that will be with me the rest of my life. He died 3 weeks later and as completely sad as I am for it… I guess “it’s something” to know that he’s at peace and didn’t want to be in that state. I’m so so sorry. This is such a torturous disease.
Thank you. I'm 32 right now and I feel like once this is over it'll take just as long to mentally recover from this experience. 

I'm here if you need to chat. We'll get through this! I just showed my mom how to make French fries (under my supervision) and she said this is the first time she has ever done this and is excited! 

This is the 100th time we've done this but I just let her believe she is being innovative lol.
