Not at all. I mean they can keep the same pace but there's no reason that I know of (not a medical professional) to expect them to decline at the same rate.

In our specific case, the mental part has fallen off a cliff and the physical part is the same as it ever was.
Respectfully, there are no "stages" of dementia. They will only get worse, and all you can do is watch, learn to live in their world, don't argue with them, just follow their lead. Also, to you and any caregivers, be kind to yourself.
Not for my mom (85f). Overall she is quite healthy, upright with no need for a cane or walker, and very social to the point that any stranger meeting her would probably think she is just a cute, ditzy old lady. Looking at her posture and gait you might peg her in her early 70’s.

But her mental decline and understanding are definitely outpacing her physical decline. Watching a baseball game today twice she asked how long baseball has been around. Both times I said at least by 1880. She said, “No, it was earlier than that, they were playing games in the early 1900’s.” It’s easier and less stressful to just say OK.

Her most recent memory test from about a week ago showed some newly developing trouble with numbers. 😞
My mom is very advanced I mean like no mental cognition. Doesn’t follow speech. She just paces for hours and is also a good eater. Her Dr. Says technically could live for years this way. She has me to make sure she takes her meds everyday. She gets 3 meals a day. So basically I’m her life support. If you were to remove that care they wouldn’t last as long as they do.
My uncle has vascular dementia as well. I can not say that the physical and mental decline are at the same pace but imo on what I see with him is both seem to go together. 2 years ago my uncle was a healthy slightly muscular guy for someone in their 70's,he weighed at 175lbs. Now that his dementia is advanced and severe, he's shrunk down to a boney 139lbs. He's not active like he use to be and his appetite has dwindled. Its hard to watch such devastation of the body and mind knowing that I'm trying desperately to keep his weight up via high calorie foods and maintain some fitness while he's mobile yet prone to falling these days. I'm sorry this is what you and your family are going through.
Progressive degenerative neurological disease. It only gets worse. It's fucking tragic.
