Put a tile or Apple air tag on them. 

He can hide them and you can easily find them.

He has dementia, and he is not going to be logical.
Pens?
Paper?
Toilet paper?
Food container's?
Silverware?
Clocks?
Napkins?
More pens?
Soap.
Yup we all go through this
My Dad lost his license and therefore the keys also. I would have the neighbours phone early in the morning saying my Dad was trying to get into my vehicle. He was trying all the keys he could find to get into "his" vehicle. There were a couple mornings he tried to prevent me from leaving in "his" vehicle threatening to call the police to report it being stolen. The worst part of dementia can also be the thing that saves you sometimes - him forgetting 5 minutes later.
It's not stealing , they are just looking for stuff they think is theirs and in some cases is theirs they just can't use it anymore. I took every key I could find and put them away the day I moved mom in. I had read a story about a loved one putting the wrong key in a car door and it getting stuck so I wasn't taking any chances.
They should be put where they can't get to them at all. What if they find them and try to drive?
My husband doesn't "steal" but he will see something and think he needs to put it in a safe place and of course doesn't remember taking it.  He did this with our passports, before diagnosis, and I have never found them despite moving or whole household.  My wedding ring disappeared a couple of years ago and I have no hope of ever finding it.  I find things in really weird places all of the time.  No way I can tag everything!
Not necessarily stealing but...preventing stealing? I went on a business trip (before I got laid off again...) and left the keyring to one of my cars that had the house key on it for the caretaker I hired. I came back and asked where they were and my mom had absolutely no idea what I was talking about. 

I (stupidly) told the CNA she could leave 20min early on the day I returned so in that 20min my mom hid the keys. Literally took me two weeks to find them because she put them in a sock, wrapped a bunch of rubber bands around the sock, and shoved them in an old purse at the bottom of corner of her closet. I had to take a photo to prove to my sister that I wasn't the crazy one haha.

I eventually laughed about it but I was definitely annoyed I couldn't move that car for two weeks lol.
Yep, I ordered tile from Amazon just an hour ago. :-) . I know there are a range of symptoms, but I didn't know that stealing things would be one of them.
My dad did this with an envelope contaning $5000 that he took out of my parent's safe, we found it after a week or so, then it went into my safe so he couldn't do it again.
Yeah, it’s not logical. We cannot apply rational rules to whatever is going on inside their brains. They may not see it as stealing, but as taking back what is “theirs.”

My mom used to accuse me of stealing her silverware. She was tossing it in the trash. 

We simply have to find usable solutions to the dementia, which can be difficult at the best of times. 

Take care — you are doing a good job!
