I couldn't last 5 years, seriously, your mom has been through a lot. I hope you can find peace. Would your mom be willing to go to counseling with you, if you say you need it?
I am so sorry for all you are feeling.  You are sad and depressed and you are unable to process all that is happening and all you have lost.  If I were you I would get some counseling to help you understand and deal with all of your emotions and also help prepare you for what is to come.  Good luck.
Sometimes a movie or two will help me. There are several with dementia as the subject that might help you release some emotions.
Im in a similar situation. My mom was the full time care taker for my dad while I was finishing college, now Im about to graduate after taking some summer classes online and living at home and I realize how bad he has gotten and truly what a burden of stress he puts on her. 

I wouldn't blame your mom for renovating the house. What you may see as your childhood home she may see the last 5 years of misery caring for her partner who was slowly declining(maybe even longer if he went undiagnosed for a while). She is probably feeling "free" from a lot of the stress and just wants something to do to take her mind off of her husband's mental state and the renovation is what is doing that for her. I know that my mom doesn't tell me everything my dad has done due to his dementia and I likely only see 60-70% of the issues.  

I know it sucks that you lost a safe space that had so many good memories tied to it, but unfortunately thats part of growing up and accepting the situation your dad is in. Sorry if my response came across as blunt and callused but after watching my mom struggling with depression, anxiety and stress from the everyday task of helping my dad for the past few years I would also want to change the house just so it feels new. I used to feel the same way about my house having lots of good memories but after being back for a few months and watching my dad's decline everyday all my childhood memories are over shadowed by the pain and suffering his dementia has caused to himself and the family.
