She may have had a stroke. I'd seek medical attention.
[deleted]
It very well could be. Or a worsening mental illness. She definitely should be seen.
Or a UTI.
maybe she's just into poetry?
A stroke or mini stroke in the prefrontal cortex can also take away their ability to filter/mask their thoughts with no obvious physical defects.  Makes the mental illness seem a lot worse because they say everything they think instead of filtering it for their audience.
I hop your mother isn’t living alone.
I agree with the others. Could be dementia or mental illness. My mom constantly repeated phrases like, “That’s all we know, for now.” Sometimes it was appropriate and sometimes it wasn’t. I could be talking about my trip and showing her beautiful landscape photos and that’s what she’d say.
Her neighbor and I are trying to get her medical attention (she’s seen the doctors a couple of times), but I don’t think she had a stroke. Thank you for your advice though!
Thank you for your answer. I wasn’t sure if this was word salad or not. Maybe it’s just her mental illness, and not dementia then?
Thank you for your answer. She’s being seen, but it’s very difficult to distinguish between mental illness and dementia in some cases (I.e. both can cause hallucinations).
I brought this up to her doctor, and am going to call in a couple of days after my moms next appointment to see if she was tested. Thank you!
Bahaha! I wish lol
I can talk to her doctor about it, but my mom has always been nasty to people as far back as I can remember. Thus why she has no friends or life partner despite being extremely sociable. :| She’s only known the neighbor for a few months, and I often wonder how long even that will last. What’s new are her memory issues, long-lasting hallucinations and delusions, and the strange phrases she uses.
She is, aside from three cats (who I’m trying to get into my care). A neighbor and I are trying to help, but I live on the other side of the world, and my mom is very difficult to deal with. She’s always been mentally unstable so it’s difficult to tell whether certain things are a sign of dementia or not.
Oh, good. I'm glad to hear she is being seen. I know sometimes elders are resistant to medical interventions.

I can definitely see how challenging it can be to determine the difference when symptoms overlap. My stepmonster is exhibiting symptoms of dementia, but has also had 5 strokes in the last 18 months, and it's difficult to know which caused what. He, however, is incredibly resistant to any medical treatment and his increasing paranoia/delusions are problematic, to say the least.

I hope you are able to find some answers/support.
This is one thing you've got to look out for once they start down the path unfortunately. Good of you to be on top of her health. I hope you also have the POA set up as well because otherwise medical/financial stuff is near impossible once the patient is unable to communicate.
My MIL had 8 husbands that we knew of (and we were estranged for years at a time). She was extremely difficult BEFORE dementia.  The stroke just made it way more obvious that she was hiding how many visual and auditory hallucinations she was having.
What’s the plan if she has dementia or Alzheimer’s? Does anyone have her POA?
I’m sorry you are dealing with a similar situation. My mother also has increasing paranoia and delusions, but has always been volatile and resistant to medical intervention (kicked out of individual and group therapy, hates doctors etc). She’s always been a difficult person…my “stepdad” (mother refused to marry him when he was alive) died from dementia, but was such an open-minded and easy going person even to the very end of his dementia. It sucks dealing with the complete opposite. :|
Unfortunately, I don’t feel comfortable having POA over my mom, since I live abroad and my mother can be very manipulative and vindictive. From what I’ve researched, it’s not usually recommended to have POA over an abusive parent. I’m still going to try what I can to help her, however! My mom lives in a small city, and her doctor already knows me from well-before my mom’s memory problems began. I trust the medical staff — it’s a very good hospital! I also expect that whether I have POA or not, that my mom might need to sell her home at some point and have the money used toward medical, until Medicaid steps in.
This is very interesting. I guess I’ll really look into strokes then…thank you!
I think we have the same mother. She ruined my first 20 years of life and is bound to ruin the last 20.
I was assuming you were the only one caring after her. POA only comes into effect once she's unable to make decisions herself, usually decided by the doctor and then you should get a Dr note which helps in POA issues. It's something you may need for end of life care, financial decisions, etc. Since you said she has assets, you would be in charge once the POA kicks in. If she is having trouble now, I would highly recommend it. Not sure what you read about POA but like I said, only effective once they're no longer able to do it themselves.
I am sorry you are dealing with this. There is a special kind if hell when you can't even say "she used to be so nice..."
