1.Information about how to care for a relative with ADRD at home
2.Practical ideas, e.g., gift ideas for Christmas
3.Rational and procedure of a caregiver’s physical and dietary action:
information about why a caregiver needs to take an action maintain their own health and well-being; what to do, and how;
4.Impact on caregiver’s work/daily life: information about how a relative’s ADRD may affect the caregiver’s own work and daily life (e.g., finances, sexual activity, smoking, alcohol use, hobbies); what adjustments need to be made; what plans need to be in place;
5.Signs/signals: information about when caregivers need to contact a healthcare provider to seek professional care for themselves
6.Planning for an unforeseen event (caregiver needs surgery or is unexpectedly hospitalized)


short summery of 6 categories
1. ADRD care at home
2. Practical ideas
3. Rational and procedure action
4. Impact on caregiver
5. Signals
6. Planning for unforeseen events

Update new category Feb 12
1. Information about how to care for a patient at home from a practical point of view
ADRD at home

2 .Information about practical strategies or tips for the care of a caregiver, including caregiver self-care and a 3rd person seeking care information for a caregiver
Care of a caregiver

3.ADRD background Background information not method the illness and problematic behaivors
eg. 1. Hey everyone, I'm 22 and new here. My Grammy is about stage 5-6, and my family (me, my husband, and our two young kids) have just moved back to my hometown so I can be the caretaker for my grandparents, mostly my Grammy who is 82. She lives at home with my grandfather, they've been married 60+ years and up until this point he's been able to do most everything for her himself.
2.I've been living with my grandfather for 4 months as his caregiver. When I moved in he would take 1 or 2 showers per week, but now I'm lucky if I get him to take one once every 2 weeks.
3.(Background info: he is about to be 87,  formerly a mechanic and handy man, mid-late stage alz, and lives in a small nursing home with round the clock care.)

question about care of a care giver
1.
Hi everyone. We lost my grandma to alzheimer’s last December and now my grandpa is progressing into mid/late stage alzheimer’s as well. ADRD care at home
He is extremely bored all the time and I want to find things for him to do. Right now he pretty much just watches tv. ADRD care at home
The problem is we have gotten him word searches (his favorite pre-alz), easy puzzles, simple games, etc but he refuses to use them. ADRD care at home
He is very stubborn and still lucid a lot of the time, so things that are too 'childish' like busy boxes offend him. He is also still struggling a lot with not being able to drive. ADRD care at home
***"I feel helpless because every time we talk he brings up the fact that he is so bored and can’t do anything.*** :Care of a caregiver?
Does anyone have any ideas how I can help? I live on the other side of the country so just visiting more isn’t currently an option.  ADRD care at home

2.
"Hey everyone. I’m here to look for a little support for how to best connect with my grandma (69yo) before she passes. She was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s a few years ago, but had a recent steep decline.",ADRD background,Gift ideas for person with late stage Alzheimer’s and history of strokes
"Over the past few months, she has been in the hospital for erratic behavior and they think that she had several strokes while in the hospital (possibly due to psych meds, but that’s another story).",ADRD care at home,Gift ideas for person with late stage Alzheimer’s and history of strokes
"She’s now on hospice and can’t talk anymore. Last time I saw her, she only seems to acknowledge others around her sometimes, often staring off into nothing for a while. She can’t feed herself or go to the bathroom by herself.",ADRD care at home,Gift ideas for person with late stage Alzheimer’s and history of strokes
"I live a few states away, but have been trying hard to see her at least once a month. I worry every time I see her will be the last.",Care of a caregiver,Gift ideas for person with late stage Alzheimer’s and history of strokes
"So Christmas has always been very important to her. I feel bad not getting her anything, but I don’t know what might be appropriate for her. ",Care of a caregiver,Gift ideas for person with late stage Alzheimer’s and history of strokes
"I thought of baking her something because we did that together, but I’ve been told she isn’t eating much. I always did crafts with her, but I can’t think of anything to make. It doesn’t have to be a gift, either, but maybe something I can do with her.",ADRD care at home,Gift ideas for person with late stage Alzheimer’s and history of strokes
